Vote for Britain's best new building: Trafalgar Place
Media caption Vote for Britain's best new building: Trafalgar Place

Trafalgar Place is one of six UK buildings up for the 2016 Riba Stirling Prize for architecture. A select line-up of judges will decide the winner, but the BBC, in partnership with Riba, is inviting you to vote for your favourite. Find out about the other buildings here.

This vote requires Javascript.

If you are viewing this page on the BBC News app, tap here to vote.

What is it and where?

The first phase of homes in a £1.5bn redevelopment of a 1970s housing estate in Elephant and Castle in London. It is made up of 235 studio, one, two and three-bedroom homes, designed by architects dRMM. A quarter of the units were developed as affordable housing.

How much did it cost?

Confidential.

What was the vision?

To transform the former Heygate Estate into a desirable place to live, integrating a mix of mini-tower, apartment buildings and terraced houses into a re-landscaped environment. The layout aims to reconnect "the dislocated adjacent neighbourhoods that were previously fractured by elevated walkways and monolithic blocks". A central garden gives residents space to grow their own fruit and vegetables. Critics say knocking down the old estate disrupted tenants' lives and meant hundreds of council flats were lost, to be replaced largely by more expensive homes. Southwark Council says it is providing more "affordable" homes in total across the entire redevelopment site.

Image copyright Alex de Rijke

What have people said about it?

"It is one of the new-ish wave of thoughtful housing schemes, which work within tough constraints to achieve such things as a pleasant central garden for the residents." Rowan Moore, Guardian, July 2016

"It's a flag-bearing warrior building for the so-called New London Vernacular (which basically means it's clad in brick)." Rory Olcayto, Archinect, July 2016

"A fine housing scheme executed in brick that subtly changes colour and tone as it rises, this is only marred by the knowledge that the huge quantity of social housing that made way for it will not be replaced - this remains a contested arena, no matter how good the replacement." Edwin Heathcote, Financial Times, July 2016

Explore the other buildings on the shortlist

BBC Riba Stirling home page

Find out more about the BBC Riba Stirling Prize partnership

Credits: Video by Richard Kenny and Dave O'Neill

Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.