IT Dept summons a conspiracy
CM defends the minister, the govt will expose the conspiracy during Assembly session

Tribune News Service

New Delhi, September 28

In view of the Income Tax (IT) summons in an evasion case, Health Minister Satyendra Jain today reiterated that the move was a "conspiracy" and will be "exposed". The IT Department has directed the AAP minister to appear before it on October 4 in connection with a tax evasion case involving some Kolkata-based companies and furnish personal financial details along with income tax returns for the last four years. According to Jain, he has severed ties with the three companies whose accounts the IT cell is investigating in July 2013 before contesting the Assembly polls for the first time. Yesterday, he claimed that summons was just a "re-assessment" of three companies he had invested in the past and he was open to a probe. Talking to reporters here, the Health Minister Satyendra Jain expressed surprise on how media was getting hold of information of the events which are going to happen. "I am surprised who is leaking the information to the media. Even I, who have been summoned as a witness in the case, don't know what they will ask me during my appearance, but the media has already reported about it. Is the Income Tax department briefing media about it? What is the source of information? Who is monitoring it?" the Health Minister pointed out. When asked about the companies registered from residential areas, Jain said that as per his knowledge the firms are not shell companies and exist and there is no rule prohibiting a company's registration on residential address. Further, in response to questions, he said, "Everyone knows this is a conspiracy. Wait after two days, the Chief Minister will expose a very big conspiracy." Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had yesterday defended Jain saying he has been "framed" and his government will expose a "very big conspiracy" behind registration of "false" cases against AAP MLAs, ministers and himself during a special one-day session of Delhi Assembly on Friday.