End hostility, fight poverty, CM asks India, Pakistan
Tribune News Service

Srinagar, September 28

Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti today pitched for amicable relations between India and Pakistan to fight poverty and economic deprivation plaguing the region while underlining the need for a bilateral dialogue to resolve the issues. “The two nuclear armed neighbours must cooperate in the fields of social development, including eradication of poverty. With their growing economies and energy needs and the need for newer, more diverse markets and trading opportunities, the future of the troubled region has to be defined by common economic interests instead of hostilities,” the Chief Minister said. She was addressing a function in connection with the launch of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) here today. Union Minister of State (Independent charge) Dharmendra Pradhan and Union Minister of State in the PMO Jitendra Singh also addressed the gathering. “Instead of fighting wars with each other, the two countries should join hands to eradicate poverty and address social problems plaguing the region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi went to Pakistan with this message on behalf of people of J&K but the Pathankot incident shattered that process,” she said. The Chief Minister said as in any violent situation, the women have suffered the most in Jammu and Kashmir. “In Kashmir, women have become the primary victims of the violent situation over the last three decades which hasn’t led us anywhere. Our party became the harbinger of peace when my father, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, spoke of nursing the wounds of people when the memory of Kargil war was still afresh,” she said. “In times of war, Mufti Saheb urged India and Pakistan to get involved in talks and start a process of reconciliation. In 2002, we formed the government with the Congress when the NDA was ruling at the Centre. Atalji (Bihari Vajpayee) understood Mufti Saheb’s point of view and started confidence-building measures which ushered the state in a new era of peace and prosperity,” she said. The Chief Minister said the Peoples Democratic Party, of which she is the president, entered into an alliance with the BJP to take forward the mission of restoration of peace in Jammu and Kashmir. “If the Centre walks one step towards the people of Kashmir, they will respond with 10 steps which is what made Atalji one of the most popular Indian leaders among Kashmiris,” she said. Hitting out at the Opposition for targeting the coalition government over petty issues, the Chief Minister said the same parties, which want to keep the pot boiling in Kashmir, sold their mandate in the past purely in order to remain in power. “Those speaking against us used to talk in the language of war when they were in power. Mufti Saheb knew that PM Modi had the mandate of the entire country which was why we shook hands with the BJP. We have lost count of widows and orphans. How long are we going to fight with each other?” she asked. The Chief Minister said the recommendations made by the Prime Minister’s working groups offered resolutions to every problem in all three regions of Jammu and Kashmir, including talks with Pakistan and return of power projects.