Interim bail to folk singer Sapna
Saurabh Malik

Tribune News Service

Chandigarh, September 28

Nearly two months after a case was registered against Haryanavi folk singer Sapna Chaudhary under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Justice Jitendra Chauhan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that she would be released on interim bail in the event of her arrest. The order came with a rider. Justice Chauhan asserted she would make herself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required; and would not “directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer”. She would also not leave India without the court’s prior permission. Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate PS Hundal contended that the composition sung by her — on the basis of which the FIR was registered — was composed more than five decades ago and repeatedly sung by many artists. The singing of the “Ragni” in question was never objected to by any member of society. However, to assuage the feeling of any intentional hurt to the complainant, the petitioner also tendered an unconditional apology through an affidavit. Counsel for the complainant, on the other hand, stated that the complainant was receiving continuous threats to withdraw the complaint. Certain false complaints too were filed against him. His life and liberty were threatened at the hands of the petitioner and her supporters; and certain conversation in the context was also recorded by him. Justice Chauhan then directed the complainant to hand over the incriminating documents, including the CDs, to the investigating officer and also place it on the court record. “The state is directed to thoroughly inquire into the matter, including the threat perception to the life and liberty of the complainant and ensure that the complainant is not threatened or intimidated and his life and liberty is fully protected. A detailed reply in the matter be filed a week prior to the adjourned date,” Justice Chauhan added.