Rohtak reports max chikungunya cases
Of 191 cases, 79 surface in Rohtak | Evening OPD on | Testing kits provided to Civil Hospitals

Sunit Dhawan

Tribune News Service

Rohtak, September 28

Two more cases of dengue surface in Kaithal

Suspected as well as confirmed patients of dengue, chikungunya and malaria continue to throng government-run as well as privately managed health facilities in the region. As per the latest figures furnished by the Health Department, the maximum number of chikungunya cases has been reported from Rohtak till date. Of 191 cases of chikungunya reported from Haryana, 79 have been reported from Rohtak district alone. On the other hand, Mewat has topped the malaria chart, recording a whopping 4,560 cases. With 243 cases of dengue, Ambala has recorded the maximum cases of dengue in the state. Dr Deepa Jakhar, Civil Surgeon, Rohtak, said evening OPDs were being run at the local General Hospital to cater to the heavy rush of patients. From today, chikungunya-testing kits had also been made available at the local Civil Hospital so that the patients, who had no option but to rush to the PGIMS, could get themselves checked at the Civil Hospital as well.Kaithal: A day after a man died of dengue, two more cases were reported here on Wednesday. Manmohan Singh and his daughter Rajvinder Kaur of local Ashoka Garden Colony were admitted to the Civil Hospital here. Inder Jeet, son of Manmohan, said blood platelets of his father and sister came down alarmingly. As several dengue patients are under treatment in private hospitals, the Health Department does not have complete data about dengue patients. There was panic among villagers and those suffering from fever. Making matters worse is the lack of health facilities in villages and shortage of doctors and paramedical staff. Sajuma village sarpanch Jaswinder, meanwhile, informed Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Manish Bansal that Subhash of his village died of dengue recently. Dr Bansal called the in charge of the Primary Health Centre, Padla, directing her to rush workers to Sajuma and take blood samples of those suffering from fever. The CMO also issued directions for fogging in the village. He asked the sarpanch to spread awareness among villagers so that they do not panic. “We had launched a campaign in rural and urban areas of the district and detected dengue larvae at several places. The health department is taking steps to check the spread of dengue, chikungunya and malaria. If people cooperate, the diseases cannot surface,” the CMO said.