Two more held
Sunit Dhawan

Tribune News Service

Rohtak, September 28

The district police have arrested two more members of the gang involved in the sex racket unearthed yesterday. While Jind-based man Shamsher and his wife Rekha were arrested yesterday, Saroj and Rajbir of Hisar district were arrested from Lakhanmajra in Rohtak district late in the night. Rohtak SSP Rakesh Arya maintained that a special team led by Dr Ravinder had been constituted. Following that, raiding parties were despatched to nab other members of the gang whose names had cropped up during the investigation. Interrogation of the arrested persons revealed that the gang comprised Rekha and her husband Shamsher of Kalouda (Jind), Saroj, wife of Jaipal, and Rajbir of Kapdo (Hisar), Saroj of Jind, another Saroj of Fatehabad, Kavita and another person. Saroj of Fatehabad has reportedly involved her two daughters in the racket. The women members of the gang used to entice unsuspecting men to have sex with them. Following that, they blackmailed them by threatening to lodge police complaints for raping them. They even lodged FIRs to put pressure on the men and used to withdraw their complaint after extorting hefty amounts. The matter came to light when the wife of one of the victims struck a deal with the gang members and approached the police. Rekha and her husband Shamsher were arrested while accepting money from the wife of a Rohtak shopkeeper who had been booked and arrested on Rekha’s complaint. Police investigation revealed that the gang had been active since 2012. Its members have confessed to their involvement in 16 cases in different parts of the state, including Rohtak, Jind, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Bhiwani. Of these, FIRs were lodged in two cases while in the rest, money was extorted in the name of compromise after lodging complaints. The gang members took Rs 30,000 to Rs 5 lakh per case for striking a compromise . The gang members used to share the amount among themselves and gave some of it to police officials and lawyers backing them.