Suicide was the only option left with Bansals, says domestic help
Within a span of two months, the 17-year-old domestic help at BK Bansal’s house has seen four bodies hanging form ceiling fans and is in a state of shock.

The minor, Rachna Srivas, said Bansal and was distraught after his wife Satyabala and daughter Neha killed themselves on July 16.

“My employers (Bansal and his son Yogesh) often told me that they lost everything after Satyabala madam and Neha didi and suicide was the only option left for them. But I never imagined that they would actually do what they said,” said Rachna.

Fifteen hours before the former corporate affairs director general and his son were found dead at their east Delhi home, Rachna saw Yogesh enter the flat with a long rope. Already aware of the mental stress the two were going through, she had asked Yogesh why he had bought the rope.

“I was about to leave the flat around 6.30 pm on Monday when I saw Yogesh bhaiya bringing a rope. He said he bought it to use it at home,” said Rachna. She said Yogesh was more upset than his father after the deaths of his mother and sister.

Read: Bansal suicide: Copies of note found at residence blames CBI for ‘torture’

Neighbours said Yogesh stopped interacting with neighbours and friends after his mother and sister’s death. They said, Yogesh had suffered huge losses in his real-estate business recently. “Yogesh was more depressed and used to stay in his room only. Bansal would run after lawyers and do the other things after his bail,” said Harish, a neighbour.

After losing his wife and daughter, Bansal was trying to convince his son to get married, but Yogesh was reportedly not ready for it. “Yogesh was upset because of the losses from all sides... be it in business or family. He never showed any will to get married,” said Rakesh Kumar, another neighbour.

Yogesh had failed in the property business several times, sources said. “Yogesh was desperate to get some peace, but could not have it,” said Rakesh.

According to Rachna, the family was very happy before Bansal’s arrest. “I was told that the CBI seized cash, jewellery from home and left only Rs 21,000. Their bank accounts were also freezed, but they managed to pay salary to all employees including two maids, gardener and a security guard,” she said.

A day before committing suicide, Bansal paid salaries to all his employees. Everyone was told they are going on a vacation and may return after a month.

Read: Hours before suicide, bureaucrat BK Bansal had visited CBI headquarters

Rachna was working at Bansals’ home for the past seven months. Four suicides within two months have left her traumatised, she said.

A resident of Tikamgarh in Madhya Pardesh, Srivas shifted to Delhi with her father one-and-half years back. Her father is a mason and they live in Ala Colony of East Delhi. Rachna started working with the family after a local security guard in the colony referred her to the Bansals.

On Monday, she was questioned by the police. “They recorded my statement. Many questions were asked.”