Kohli: India v New Zealand, 2nd Test, Kolkata: Kohli determined to bounce back from Kanpur failure
KOLKATA: You may dismiss it as just one bad Test, but India skipper Virat Kohli is not prepared to take things lightly. Kohli 's failure with the bat in both innings of the first Test against New Zealand in Kanpur was perhaps the only concern for Team India. Kohli, who boasts an enviable record overseas, has not been able to replicate that success on home soil, especially in the game's longest format. The skipper seems determined to set the record right.Kohli, who arrived at the Eden Gardens early to take part in a shoot, was quick to join Team India's optional practice session once he was through with the arclights. Kohli began in the net adjacent to the main playing square where he practised with tennis balls thrown at him from close range. The skipper used his feet nicely to get to the pitch of the deliveries.He also practised negotiating the short ones apart from polishing the sweep shot that brought about his downfall in the second innings of the first Test. Later, he moved to the practice nets where he had long session batting against spinners as well as pacers. However, with most of the frontline Indian bowlers giving Wednesday's session a miss, Kohli had no choice but to practice against local net bowlers. Keeping in mind New Zealand's left-arm pace duo of Trent Boult and Neil Wagner, Kohli batted long against Delhi pacer Pradeep Sangwan whose services have been requisitioned by the team management.The two other batsmen, who had long stints in the nets were Ajinkya Rahane and Shikhar Dhawan . The latter, who lost his opening spot to young KL Rahul in the Kanpur Test, will surely fancy his chances of opening the innings with Murali Vijay here after the Karnataka lad was forced out of the series with a hamstring injury.Dhawan was seen leaving deliveries outside the off-stump by moving his body and head away from balls thrown at him by net bowlers. Dhawan, however, faces stiff competition from veteran Gautam Gambhir , who has been drafted into the squad as Rahul's replacement. In-between Kohli had a long chat with coach Anil Kumble, who walked up to meet his former captain Sourav Ganguly , who now heads the Cricket Association of Bengal . The senior pros had a good look at the pitch which looked fresh but moisture-laden.The skipper took a mini break during which he kept a close watch on Rohit Sharma and Wriddhiman Saha who were batting in the nets. He was not done, though. When his teammates disappeared into the dressing room, Kohli once again entered the nets and batted against local bowlers. And like a true champion, he did not forget to oblige the autograph-hunters before boarding the team bus to the chants of "Kohli Kohli".