BCCI SGM: Final ball of final over?
Lodha committee +

Lodha +

MUMBAI: The pulsating match between theand the Indian cricket board - one that has involved bouncers, googlies, sixers et al so far - has finally come down to the wire. After Wednesday's Supreme Court hearing, the only question waiting to be answered is if the cricket board's Special General Meeting (SGM) on September 30 (Friday) is the final ball of the final over.In line with its own compliance report, the BCCI has convened the SGM to "consider" the amendments recommended by the Supreme Court-appointed committee.Thecommittee had set the BCCI two sets of timelines with specific deadlines to implement the recommendations post the Supreme Court order. On Wednesday, the committee categorically pointed out that the BCCI had not complied with close to seven of those timelines. The board is now running against time to do the same before or by September 30. Either they comply or risk facing the wrath of the apex court, which is scheduled to hear the matter again on October 6.At the board's annual general meeting (AGM) on September 21, its secretary Ajay Shirke said: "It (BCCI) would consider the amendments recommended by the Lodha Committee at the SGM.""They will have no further chance after the SGM. They will have to adopt the new regulations or face the consequences. That's very evident right now," an official in the know of things told TOI on Wednesday. BCCI president Anurag Thakur was abroad and is expected to return only on Friday morning while other top officials of the board remained incommunicado throughout Wednesday.The BCCI has clearly incurred the wrath of the country's highest court because it went ahead with its 86th AGM to hold elections for the post of the secretary and appointed a new selection panel. This was done after seeking legal advice from Supreme Court counsel Ashok Desai.The Lodha committee had stated that the board was free to carry out its routine functions at the AGM but was supposed to restrain from any election and appointment of the selection panel. The committee saw the AGM agenda being carried out last week as an act of impediment and said it in as many words when it submitted its report to the Supreme Court.The board clearly saw the election of the secretary and appointment of the selection panel as "routine matter" too, with Shirke saying, "The secretary is the principal officer whose term had come to an end. How can the board function without a secretary?" A source tracking the developments said, "As such, they're (BCCI officials) now paying for their defiance more than anything else. Technically, they still had time to adhere to the timelines."Besides electing the secretary and appointing the selection committee, the BCCI also appointed its president Anurag Thakur and former president Sharad Pawar as representatives to ICC board meetings and Shirke for ICC's chief executives' meeting. The BCCI also approved the budget for 2016-17."And, while all this was happening, they (BCCI) came across as being unresponsive. That's the unfortunate part because the Lodha committee clearly states that there's been no response from the BCCI post August 25 despite several reminders," the source added.On Wednesday evening, the BCCI got itself into a legal huddle yet again to seek counsel on the way forward.