Flipkart Big Billion Days, Amazon Great Indian Sale, Snapdeal Unbox Diwali sale: What to expect
Flipkart Big Billion Days sale will have mobiles on discount on October 3 and electronics sale on October 4. Flipkart Big Billion Days sale will have mobiles on discount on October 3 and electronics sale on October 4.

Flipkart, Amazon and Snapdeal are ready to host their pre-Diwali sales, and for those looking to upgrade their PC or smartphone, this is a great opportunity to try out. Flipkart will be hosting its Big Billion Days from October 2-6 with October 3 being dedicated to Mobiles and Accessories, while October 4 is for electronics.

Amazon is hosting its Great Indian sale from October 1 to 5 and will offer early deals for 30 minutes to Amazon Prime users. Snapdeal is hosting its Unbox Diwali sale from October 2-6. Here’s a look at what to expect from these sales on the top e-commerce sites in India, and how to get the most out of them.

Flipkart Big Billion Days

Flipkart will have the first three days dedicated to individual categories. These are as follows:

October 2: Fashion, Home, TV, Appliances

October 3: Mobiles and Accessories

October 4: Electronics

October 5 and 6: Everything on sale

Now Flipkart has been giving a preview of the some of the deals to expect when the sales start for mobiles, electronics. A Mi Flagship Phone will have Rs 5000 (most likely the Mi 5), there will be Rs 11,000 discount on a popular gaming console.

Google Chromecast 2 will be available at Rs 2999 from the original price of Rs 3,399. There will be discounts on Intel Core i3 laptops, popular tablets will have Rs 5,000 off and one of the deals says that a smartphone priced at Rs 28,999 will be available at Rs 18,999. We’re guessing this is the Moto X Style.

Watch all our technology videos below

Samsung Galaxy On8 smartphone will also go on sale during the Big Billion Day event. SBI credit and debit card users get 10 per cent instant discount on Flipkart.

Amazon’s Great Indian Sale

Amazon has come up with an Assistant to help you keep a tab of the best deals of the day, including product comparisons that can save time and money. Amazon is offering 15 per cent cashback on App and 10 per cent cashback on site for HDFC debit and credit card users.

Also read: Walmart, Flipkart may join forces to take on Amazon in India

Amazon Prime users will get deals 30 minutes early every day. Some of the deals we saw in our preview could include offers on the following devices: Moto G4, Microsoft Surface Pro 4, Canon 1200 D, TCL L55P1US 139.7 cm (55 inches) 4K Ultra HD Smart LED TV (Black), Micromax LED TV, CoolPad Mega 2.5D, Pebble Smartwatches, Lenovo Laptop, Micromax Canvas Lapbook, Redmi Note 3 and others.

Amazon’s Great Indian Sale also has prizes on offer for those buy just from the app. Amazon’s Great Indian Sale also has prizes on offer for those buy just from the app.

For those looking to upgrade their electronics, Amazon says users should keep the amazon.co.in/electronics page bookmarked, stayed signed into their account and check out within 15 minutes. Blockbuster deals will be the first thing on the page, and Amazon warns these tend to run out pretty fast. It’s best to store credit/debit card information on the site in order to get the products before anyone else.

Read more: Samsung Galaxy On8 launched on Flipkart at Rs 15,990; sale starts October 2

Amazon also has some prizes during the sale like OnePlus phones, etc, but only for those who shop on the app.

Snapdeal Unbox Diwali sale starts from October 2-6. Snapdeal Unbox Diwali sale starts from October 2-6.

Snapdeal Unbox Diwali sale

Snapdeal is also hosting its Unbox Diwali Sale from October 2-6. Citi bank debit and credit card users get 20 per cent flat off. Snapdeal hasn’t given out separate dates for categories, but the deals will extend across products. It has phones like Mi Max, Micromax Canvas series, etc could see a discount and be available for even cheaper prices.

Snapdeal will also let users buy gold coins & silver coins as well. It looks like Snapdeal’s sale will also focus on home and office furniture for those interested.

The three big e-commerce sites are not the only ones which will be hosting a sale. Other players like ebay India, Shopclues are also going to offer discounts during the sale period.

This is a good time to browse for prices, specifications of laptops, desktops, smartphones and read up on reviews of which products are good. Our suggestion is also to check the current prices of the products, and then see which ones get an actual discount on sale dates. It’s also best to keep signed in with address, payment details etc on the website of your choice, because sale days also means a lot of failure when it comes to checking out.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd