Could Anglesey newcomers hold key to stopping decline of Welsh language?
Anglesey Council has given the go-ahead to a strategy aimed at boosting use of Welsh language

Newcomers to Anglesey could be the secret to reversing the decline of the Welsh language as new measures to boost the language are rubber-stamped.

The county council has set a target of increasing the percentage of Welsh speakers from 57% to just over 60% by 2021 following a decline in recent years.

Among the proposals by the Language Strategic Forum to be given the green light at a full council meeting today, were welcome packs for island newcomers, outlining the local culture and benefits of learning the language.

Packs will also be handed to businesses thinking of investing on the island, pointing out the advantages of Welsh in the workplace.

Annwen Morgan, Anglesey council assistant chief executive, told the meeting: “The strategy is the work of a number of key partners. If we achieve all these targets we can be very proud.”

Other measures include further emphasis on boosting use of the language in its largest town of Holyhead, where the 2011 census showed while 20% of Holyhead’s residents could understand spoken Welsh, over half didn’t use it.

At present, only three council wards show over 80% of its residents as being fluent Welsh speakers - all within the county town of Llangefni.

In the popular seaside village of Rhosneigr the figure is lower at 36%, which has been attributed to high levels of immigration and holiday homes, with the largest drop seen in nearby Aberffraw - from 69.4% in 2001 to 60.4% in 2011.

Based on a report compiled by the forum, chaired by former Aberystwyth University vice-chancellor Derec Llwyd Morgan, the aim is to replicate the percentage of Welsh speakers shown in the 2001 census.

Groups such as Young Farmers Clubs and Urdd branches will also be asked to play a part in boosting use of the language among youngters, while in education terms, the strategy hopes to see a 10% increase of pupils studying Welsh as a first language. Organisations such as Menter Iaith Mon will also be tasked with increasing its use on a social level.

There will be further emphasis on use of the language both at Holyhead High and the new Ysgol Cybi primary school.

Anglesey Council itself has pledged to increase the use of the language within its internal administration, with progress to be monitored on an annual basis.

But with the potential influx of thousands of workers to help build Wylfa Newydd, the majority of whom from outside of Wales, discussions are already underway with Horizon Nuclear Power to fund five dedicated officers to promote culture, sport and the Welsh language.

Plaid Cymru councillor, Meirion Jones, said: “We have challenges ahead, such as Wylfa Newydd, but its important that we do something and make a difference. The success of this strategy depends on a positive attitude by all .”