Gwynedd communities face winter 'gritting crisis' with salt bins set to disappear from roadsides
Cash-strapped Gwynedd Council has said it cannot afford to keep filling, re-supplying and maintaining the county’s grit bins

Rural communities in Gwynedd face a “gritting crisis” as salt bins are placed at risk of being axed from roadsides this winter.

Cash-strapped Gwynedd Council has said it cannot afford to keep filling, re-supplying and maintaining the county’s 717 bright-yellow containers as it battles to find £4.6m savings.

Fears have been raised the move, which could save Gwynedd Council £100,000 a year, could see grit bins scrapped altogether if town and community councils do not agree to cover the cost of the service themselves from this winter.

The county council will continue to grit 670 miles of priority routes throughout the county when cold and icy weather is forecast.

But some community councils, including Llandwrog, are refusing to foot the £80 bill to fill each bin, sparking fears there will be nothing to stop minor roads from freezing over.

Llandwrog Community Council said “maintenance of the highways is the responsibility of Gwynedd Council”, adding there are other pressures on its own budget for the next financial year.

Talysarn Cllr Dilwyn Lloyd said the situation will be “very dangerous” for residents living in rural areas and could put people’s lives at risk.

He said: “This is a health and safety matter now as pedestrians and motorists could be killed as roads get frozen over due to this cut.

“We face a real gritting crisis in rural communities in Gwynedd.”

Caernarfon town and county councillor Roy Owen said Gwynedd Council had refused an offer made by the town council to fill the bins.

Cllr Owen said: “The town council made an offer to Gwynedd Council to pay £40 for filling every salt bin but they wanted £80.

“The town council also suggested they would provide the bins themselves and fill them but this was also refused due to health and safety.”

“So if Gwynedd Council refuse to budge, there could no salt bins in Caernarfon.”

But Pwllheli town councillor Jonathan Robert added its town council has agreed to take responsibility for some of the salt boxes around the town in areas where they are most needed.

A Gwynedd Council spokesman said: “As has been widely reported, Gwynedd Council is facing an unprecedented financial shortfall as a result of severe cuts in the funding we receive from the government to pay for local services.

“There is no statutory duty for the council to provide the salt bins that are located in some communities, and a decision was taken some time ago to charge community and town councils for this provision from this winter onwards.

“Before this was implemented, the council wrote to all town and community councils in the county to notify them of this decision and to provide them with adequate notice within which they could consider whether they wished to take over responsibility for any grit bins that they considered to be a local priority.

“This new arrangement will allow community and town Councils to opt for increasing the number of salt bins in their area if required. Because of financial restraints, Gwynedd Council has been unable to increase the number of salt bins over recent years despite numerous requests from community councils.

“Every winter Gwynedd Council is responsible for gritting around 670 miles of priority routes throughout the county when cold and icy weather is forecast. This decision does not in any way impact upon this essential winter service.”

Share your views about this story using the comment section below.