Virat-Anushka on the verge of a break-up again?
Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma has revealed the reason why she won’t talk about her hush-hush relationship with Indian cricketer Virat Kohli. The couple has constantly been under public gaze and media scrutiny since their reunion early this year. Speaking at length about her relationship, the actress admitted that it (talking about her relationship) was just a ‘deterrent’ in her life as she was putting up some of her best performances, but it was her personal life that grabbed headlines.



When asked to comment on her relationship with Virat, the actress first refused to budge, but on further probing, said, “Fair enough. I will tell you why I don't want to talk about it. I was open about my relationship because I thought that's me handling something maturely and I expected people also to handle it maturely. But I feel not everyone knows how to do that. All they are interested in is scoops. 'Oh! They met.' - If you are dating someone you will meet them na? How can meeting someone become such big news? It was just too much. As an actor, I was giving some of my best performances but in an interview, the headline would always be about my personal life.”



Anushka also defended her stance saying that Hollywood actors are also often asked personal questions, but that is just ‘a part of the interview’. She also said that unlike the situation she is put into, actors abroad are ‘protected’ and don’t necessarily have to answer all the questions thrown at them. She said, “This is just a deterrent in my life. The kind of things that happened last year...like the kind of questions they would ask. You are there to talk about a film and they want to ask you stupid-high-school-kids-questions like how did you meet each other. Grow up man! In the West too, actors date each other, are married, but when you read their personal interviews, their personal life is just a part of it. But here interviews just become about your personal life. And I'm part of the entertainment industry; I can't shy away from this. Actors abroad are protected. They are not allowed to talk to anyone. But I don't have this kind of filter. Anyone can ask me anything here. So this was the decision I had to take.”



On the work front, Anushka is fresh out of the success of her film with Salman Khan, ‘Sultan’. She is currently waiting for the release of her home production ‘Phillauri’ and Karan Johar’s romantic-drama ‘Ae Dil Hai Mushkil’.