Uma Bharti to chair meeting on Cauvery water crisis today
The Karnataka government Wednesday deferred the release of 6,000 cusecs of water to Tamil Nadu, as directed by the Supreme Court, till September 27. (Source: File photo) The Karnataka government Wednesday deferred the release of 6,000 cusecs of water to Tamil Nadu, as directed by the Supreme Court, till September 27. (Source: File photo)

In order to find solutions to the ongoing Cauvery water dispute between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Union Water Resources Minister Uma Bharti will hold a meeting with the state representatives on Thursday in New Delhi. Speaking to news agency PTI on Wednesday, CM Siddaramaiah said, “I will attend the meeting and put forward our case. Let us see what will come out of the meeting.”

The Siddaramaiah-led government in Karnataka has delayed the release of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu for the second time this week. The Supreme Court had ordered the state to release 6000 cusecs of water for three days, starting Wednesday. According to news agency ANI, Siddaramaiah also said, “We don’t want to disrespect the judicial order, but since we have no water, this is a resolution taken by us in legislature. Going by suggestions at the all party meeting and our resolution, we are deferring release till tomorrow.”

Since Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa is undergoing treatment in a hospital in Chennai, she has nominated PWD Minister Edappadi S Palanisamy and a team of officials to represent the state in the meeting. DMK has raised objections saying that instead of Umar Bharti, the meeting should be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

DMK President M Karunanidhi alleged that Bharti had recently aired views “fully supporting” Karnataka in the current Cauvery water crisis. “Instead of the participation of the Union Minister, the meet should be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself so that an amicable solution arises from it,” PTI quotes him as saying.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd