BK Bansal suicide note: Probe link between CBI and Amit Shah, says Arvind Kejriwal
BJP chief Amit Shah and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in this combination image. BJP chief Amit Shah and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in this combination image.

Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday called for a probe into the alleged links between the CBI and BJP chief Amit Shah. This, following a suicide note that was recovered from the residence of bureaucrat BK Bansal, who, along with his son, committed suicide earlier this week.

“Read Bansal’s suicide note. Unable to sleep. Sanjiv Gautam (CBI) etc shud be immediately arrested. Their links wid Amit shah investigated. Whole country knows criminal background of Amit Shah. Can India be mute spectator to CBI being turned into an agency of his henchmen?,” Kejriwal tweeted at 3 am Thursday morning.

In his suicide note, Bansal alleged that the DIG had threatened him. “Teri wife aur daughter ka wo haal karenge ki sunne wale kaanp jaayenge (such things will be done to your wife and daughter that it will send shivers down the spine of those who hear of it),” the note stated. Reacting to the allegations, BJP spokesperson Shrikant Sharma said: “So many people claim to know somebody, and then when they come face-to-face, the claim falls flat. How can you prevent anybody from dropping names? So many frauds misuse the name of our office.”

When the agency’s comments were sought, CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said: “We have today received communication from Delhi Police enclosing therewith the purported hand written notes of Shri B K Bansal, then DG(Ministry of Corporate Affairs), Government of India, and his son Shri Yogesh Bansal. It contains allegations against certain CBI officials in connection with the on-going bribery investigation against Shri B K Bansal and others.”

Demanding “an enquiry” against the officers he named, Bansal, who was arrested for graft, claimed that the DIG would drop the name of a senior BJP leader. The CBI said it would probe the allegations against its officers.

Bansal and his son Yogesh were found hanging in their Madhu Vihar house in Delhi Tuesday, almost two months after his 58-year-old wife, Satyabala, and 28-year-old daughter, Neha, killed themselves in a similar manner on July 19, three days after he was arrested by the CBI.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd