Price comparison sites to be probed by watchdog
Image copyright Uswitch

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) says it will look into the way price comparison websites, which enable consumers to compare products and services, operate.

The watchdog says its reviews into private motor insurance, energy and banking have highlighted how these tools can boost competition.

It says it wants to see how they can be used to maximise consumer benefits.

But it will also consider concerns expressed about such services.

Some people have raised concerns about certain issues, including whether consumers can trust the information on them.

The CMA will focus on four sectors - broadband, home insurance, credit cards and flights - and will examine whether arrangements between these providers and the suppliers that sell through them might restrict competition.

These sites began operating about 10 years ago. The best known include uSwitch, Compare the Market and Go Compare. They have been joined by mobile phone apps.

There are some companies whose products do not appear on comparison websites and commercial arrangements vary between sites and providers.

Companies often pay a fee to a site for each new customer they gain.

Andrea Coscelli, CMA acting chief executive, said: "Digital comparison tools have played a big part in changing markets for the better, bringing new ways of doing things and forcing businesses to up their game.

"Consumers have benefited as choice and access to goods and services have grown."

She said they had been more successful in some sectors than others.

The CMA said it wanted to understand why this was the case and whether more could be done to ensure consumers and businesses can benefit from them more widely.

It will examine four areas:

What consumers expect from comparison tools, how they use them and their experiences

The impact of such tools on competition between suppliers listed on them

How effectively comparison tools compete with each other

The effectiveness of existing regulation

The CMA must announce within six months whether it intends to refer the market for a more in-depth investigation and must publish its report within 12 months.