Education can transform lives: VVS Laxman
The former India batsman was speaking at an event by an NGO, ‘Project 511’, in Hyderabad. (File photo) The former India batsman was speaking at an event by an NGO, ‘Project 511’, in Hyderabad. (File photo)

Noting that education is the real gift one can give to any child, former India batsman VVS Laxman Wednesday said it can not only transform their lives but enable them in transforming lives of others also.

He said that instead of finding shortcomings of the government, one should come forward and help in improving educational facilities at government schools.

What else is making news?

“I always felt that education is the real gift you can gift to any child. We can give clothes, we can give food and we can give them lots of gifts, but all of them are very temporary… but education is something which will transform their lives, will make them independent and they in turn can transform the lives of their family members or their friend circles or whoever they get in contact with,” Laxman said in Hyderabad.

Speaking at an event by an NGO, ‘Project 511’, an initiative of the Hyderabad Round Table 8 (HRT8) which announced ‘Food for Change’, a charity dinner as part of Daan Utsav, scheduled on October 9, Laxman said, “I have known ‘Project 511’ and the work they are doing with government schools in Hyderabad and others districts of Telangana.

Read: IIT Bombay organised candle march to pay tribute to Uri martyrs

“While we should appreciate the efforts of the government, we should also understand that it is not easy for the government to take care of all of their initiatives,” he said.

“I always believed that instead of complaining and always looking at the shortcomings of the government, it is important to come forward and help in making sure that our city, our state becomes the best,” he added.

Read: Panjab University economics dept gears up to welcome Manmohan Singh

“There is no better satisfaction than giving. What our country requires is not selfish people but we require selfless people. The members of ‘Project 511’ are an inspiration and are working to change the future achievers of this country, who are the underprivileged children studying in government schools,” said Laxman.

‘Project 511’ is an NGO working to improving quality of education imparted in government schools and is now associated with 1,022 government schools.

For more news on education, click here