India strikes terror launch pads across LoC: This is how it unfolded
Director General Military Operations (DGMO) and Vikas Swarup addressed media today. Director General Military Operations (DGMO) and Vikas Swarup addressed media today.

The day begun with the postponement of the review meeting on Most Favoured Nation status to Pakistan, which was to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Soon after, PM Modi chaired the Cabinet Committee on Security meeting along with Rajnath Singh, Manohar Parrikar, NSA Ajit Doval, and other senior officials due to the prevailing tense situation along the Line of Control (LoC).

Subsequently, a joint media briefing was conducted by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, where DGMO Lt Gen Ranbir Singh said that India conducted surgical strikes last night along the LoC to safeguard the nation. “Significant casualties have been caused to terrorists and those trying to shield them. We don’t have a plan to further conduct such strikes. India has spoken to Pakistan,” he said.

Speaking on the operation last night, Singh said that the motive of this operation was to hit out at the terrorists who were planning to infiltrate into our territory, adding that no Indian casualties during surgical strikes that were carried out in Pakistan territory last night by the Indian Army.

READ: India conducted surgical strikes last night across LoC to safeguard our nation: Defence Ministry

Singh mentioned that despite India’s persistent urging to Pakistan to not allow territory under its control to be used for terrorist activities nothing was done. He brought to focus the many infiltration attempts by terrorist at LoC in the recent past. “It has been a matter of serious concern that there has been many infiltration bids by terrorists at LoC. This is reflected in the terror attacks in Poonch and Uri on 11th and 18th September respectively,” he said.

This briefing comes in the wake of terrorist attack at Uri in Jammu and Kashmir, in which 18 soldiers were killed by Jaish-e-Muhammad terrorists.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd