ISL 2016: When, where and how to watch ISL opening ceremony live with video streaming
NEUFC will play the first fixture post the opening ceremony when they host Kerala Blasters. (Source: ISL) NEUFC will play the first fixture post the opening ceremony when they host Kerala Blasters. (Source: ISL)

The high profile bonanza of football in the country with the Indian Super League (ISL) is all set to commence with the action kick starting in Guwahati between North East United and Kerala Blasters. But before the first ball is kicked and all the intensity picks up on the field, the 2016 edition of the ISL will come to life with the opening ceremony led by Bollywood celebrities Alia Bhatt, Jacqueline Fernandes and Varun Dhawan and 500 performers and artists will work their magic in tandem in what is expected to be a glittering affair in the North East.

For many years, the North East region has been a hub for producing and nurturing talent that plies its trade in the ISL, the I-League and the Indian national sides. And this focus and grooming process has been rewarded with the ISL opening ceremony by the organisers.

NorthEast United FC owner and host of the opening ceremony, John Abraham said, “I’m extremely happy to get this opportunity to host the Opening ceremony. It’s a huge deal for my team as well as my people in the NorthEast region who have always showered the team with their love and supported us throughout. The Opening Ceremony promises to draw the world’s attention to the potential of NorthEast region and I hope this encourages more youth from the area to take up football professionally.”

Who is performaing at the ISL opening ceremony?

Opening ceremonies for the ISL have so far had their Bollywood glamour to it. Be it Priyanka Chopra in the first edition with Hrithik Roshan, or Aishwarya Rai alongside AR Rahman in the second edition. This is followed by the team owners who also come from the film industry in the form of John Abraham, Abhishek Bachchan, Ranbir Kapoor and Hrithik.

The trend will continue in the third edition too with Alia Bhatt, Jacqueline Fernandes and Varun Dhawan the leading acts in the ceremony. They will be supported by 500 performers and artists to bring the ISL to a glittering, colourful and musical start.

When and where is the ISL opening ceremony?

The ISL opening ceremony is on October 1 (Saturday) in Guwahati, home venue for NorthEast United which is owned by John Abraham. NEUFC will play the first fixture post the opening ceremony when they host Kerala Blasters.

What time is the opening ceremony?

The opening ceremony begins at 6 PM IST (12.30 GMT) and will be aired on Star Sports network.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd