Lenovo offering extended warranty and accidental damage protection this Diwali
Lenovo computers will be able to buy additional warranty, accessories like power banks, hard drive or gaming gear and accident protection Lenovo computers will be able to buy additional warranty, accessories like power banks, hard drive or gaming gear and accident protection

Ahead of this year’s festive season, Lenovo is offering two years of Accidental Damage Protection (ADP) along with two years of additional warranty at no extra charge. The company is offering a host of offers for its entire range of desktops, laptops and All-in-One computers.

“In today’s hectic lifestyles where customers are always on the move and laptops are prone to accidents, ADP will be a big boon and customers can use their laptops, worry free. ADP covers damage due to accidental drops, spills, electrical surges or failure of the integrated screen. If repair is not possible, the entire system will be replaced at no additional charge with a comparably configured system,” said the company in a statement.

During the Diwali season, customers of Lenovo computers will be able to buy additional warranty for up to three years, accessories like power banks, hard drive or gaming gear and accident protection for up to three years. The offers will be based on redemption and will only be available through authorised Lenovo resellers and online partners.

Speaking about ADP, Rajesh Thadani, Head & Executive Director – Consumer, Online and E-commerce, Lenovo India said, “With ADP, we are making sure that our customers can be stress free while working on their laptops. It is a step forward in our constant endeavor to be a consumer-centric brand. Our aim is to provide a hassle free and enhanced computing experience to our customers.”

Read: Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga review

Accidental damage protection offered by Lenovo covers damage due to spills, accidental drops, failure of screen or electrical surges. The company will replace the system against no additional charge if a repair isn’t possible.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd