Morning news headlines: Child sex abuse probe lawyer read about his suspension on the internet; Most people have older 'heart age' than actual age, study reveals
File photo dated 28/01/16 of Ben Emmerson QC as the national probe into child sex abuse has been plunged into fresh controversy after its senior lawyer said he learned of his suspension from the investigation via the internet

CHILD SEX ABUSE PROBE LAWYER READ ABOUT HIS SUSPENSION ON THE INTERNET

The national probe into child sex abuse has been plunged into fresh controversy after its senior lawyer said he learned of his suspension from the investigation via the internet.

In a fresh blow to the inquiry's credibility, its counsel, Ben Emmerson QC, said no allegations had yet been put to him and he was left to discover his suspension from news reports.

The £100 million probe, which has been dogged by controversy since it was set up by then Home Secretary Theresa May in 2014, is already on its fourth chairwoman.

MOST PEOPLE HAVE OLDER 'HEART AGE' THAN ACTUAL AGE, STUDY REVEALS

The vast majority of people have an older "heart age" than their actual age, a new study suggests.

An online test which calculates a person's risk of having a heart attack or stroke reveals that almost four in five people over the age of 30 have a heart which is deemed to be older than their chronological age.

This means they are at a higher risk of potentially fatal heart attack or stroke.

BARNSLEY SUSPEND COACH TOMMY WRIGHT OVER PAYMENT ALLEGATIONS

A Championship football team has suspended its head coach following allegations he took a £5,000 payment to help place players at his club.

Queens Park Rangers boss Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and Leeds United owner Massimo Cellino have also been shown in new video footage from the Daily Telegraph as part of its undercover investigation into corruption in football.

Hasselbaink has denied any wrongdoing, while Leeds rejected the allegations and described the report as a "non-story".

SOME PAINKILLERS 'INCREASE THE RISK OF DEVELOPING HEART FAILURE'

Common painkillers used by millions of people in the UK are linked to an increased risk of heart failure, experts have said.

Non-selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen could increase the risk of being admitted to hospital with the heart problem, a study found.

Previous studies have linked the drugs to abnormal heart rhythm - which can cause heart failure - and an increased risk of heart attack and stroke if taken regularly.

SIGNING CEREMONY SET TO FINALISE HINKLEY NUCLEAR POWER STATION DEAL

A signing ceremony is expected to be held to finalise the deal to build the first new UK nuclear power station in a generation.

UK and French government officials are set to attend the event following the approval to go ahead with the £18 billion project at Hinkley Point in Somerset.

The ceremony, expected today, will be more low-key than the one originally planned for July.

BOB GELDOF ATTACKS DONALD TRUMP AND BORIS JOHNSON AT CANADA SUMMIT

Bob Geldof used his opening ceremony speech at the One Young World Summit to label Donald Trump a "racist" and a "liar".

Speaking in Ottawa, Canada, at a gathering of 1,300 current and future young leaders, Geldof grouped the Republican presidential candidate in a category of "commanders in the armies of stupid" that included Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson.

"Who believes any more that trade amongst the nations will lift us all out of the great evil that everyone has spoken of, poverty? And especially now that a liar, a fool and a racist vomits his bile on to the disinherited of the United States," the musician and activist said.

WILLIAM AND KATE GO OFF THE RAILS IN DAREDEVIL STEAM TRAIN ADVENTURE

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge found themselves on the wrong side of the tracks when they made an impromptu stop to see a Canadian steam train.

After walking through clouds of steam to clamber inside the cab - and taking the chance to blow its whistle - they had to make the return journey but were left cautiously watching every step, during a visit to the tiny wilderness hamlet of Carcross in the Yukon yesterday.

The locomotive had stopped close to the end of a railway bridge that crossed a stretch of water and although the drop below their feet was not a long one, there was no rail to stop them falling.

PRINCESS BEATRICE WILL STRIVE TO COMPLETE MOUNT ETNA CHARITY CHALLENGE

Princess Beatrice will run and hike more than 30km to the summit of Mount Etna in Sicily today to raise money for a charity she co-founded.

The 28-year-old royal, who completed a 3,300m swim and 110km mountain bike this week as part of the Virgin Strive Challenge triathlon, will be joined on the active volcano by Sir Richard Branson and his children Sam, 31, and Holly, 34.

Beatrice set up the charity Big Change with the Branson children, who organised the Strive Challenge to raise money for the foundation.

(ROYAL Beatrice)

LACK OF FUNDS HARMING FEMALE OFFENDER REHABILITATION EFFORTS - REPORT

A shortage of accommodation and lack of funding are hampering efforts to help female offenders turn away from crime, a watchdog has warned.

Dedicated funding for women was said to have "virtually disappeared" since an overhaul of probation services was launched in 2014.

Inspectors found a reduction in the availability of accommodation and "considerable uncertainty and anxiety" about current and future funding of women's services.