DRS: India v New Zealand, 2nd Test, Kolkata: We look forward to DRS introduction in future, says Kohli
KOLKATA: India's Test captain Virat Kohli on Thursday said the team has had discussions on the contentious Decision Review System (DRS) and looks forward to the technology's introduction in the future."We have had discussions on this. Certainly we will look to introduce it in future. We won't take decisions too hard because we, in the first place, decided that we will not use DRS," Kohli said on the eve of their second Test against New Zealand at the Eden Gardens.The DRS debate had in the past found the BCCI on the opposite side of the cricketing world in general with the richest board always sticking to its original stance that it would continue to oppose the technology as "it is not fool-proof".However, Board president Anurag Thakur had last month said they were willing to accept DRS without the use of Hawk Eye.When asked about the recent dubious decisions that went against India vis-a-vis the absence of DRS, Kohli said, "Those things I can't say yes or no sitting here. We have discussed. We have had meetings about it. There are some areas that can be debated, especially the ball tracking and Hawk Eye. It can be discussed or debated upon.""For us to say that umpires made an error and it's going against us is not logical. There's no room for excuses. Once it's in place and up and running then we can think of the grey areas."We definitely need to think about it. But I can't make a decision sitting here right now. It's a good point."In the Kanpur Test, New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson went after a wide delivery from Ravindra Jadeja and managed a faint touch en route to wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha, but the umpire did not hear the edge and remained unmoved.Among India's concerns would be Kohli's recent run of form as he has scored only 78 from five innings, including 9 and 18 in the last Test, but the skipper said it's about giving 100 per cent at the practice."I don't think there's anything called form. It's about how you feel on that particular day. It's about how good you're mentally. It's about to be stable in our heads, when you get runs and when you don't. You've to accept that you can't score runs every time. Working hard is in our hands and we look to do that at the practice sessions."I don't really think about these things like my form. Result cannot be in your hand all the time in cricket. You have only one chance in batting. It's a different thing if you get caught off a no-ball! Generally, cricket is a game of chances. But preparation is something that's in my hand and I look to do it 100 per cent at the practice."Kohli was seen practising with a rubber ball yesterday and he said he was trying to get the feel of the bounce."We sometimes do tend on a flow. So it's important to work on your skills that bring in stability to your game. It's just about repeating those things. It's about controlling the ball that's bouncing and not coming at pace."India's ace off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has a corn on the middle finger of his bowling hand and did not bowl at the nets, but Kohli brushed aside any major injury apprehensions."He's absolutely fine."He denied that uncapped Haryana off-spinner Jayant Yadav was there as cover for Ashwin."Ishant would have started if he was fit. We already have three quicks. We don't feel we need any more. There are five left-handers in their batting so we thought about adding an extra off-spinner. That was the whole idea. In case we require two off-spinners, Jayant can be an option."Kohli showered praise on Ravindra Jadeja, who remained unbeaten on 42 and 50 and returned with a match haul of six wickets to be adjudged Man of the Match in the team's 197-run victory in Kanpur."I'm really happy that he's contributing with the bat. We always felt he has both skills in abundance. It's about working a bit harder making sure the team benefit from both his skills. Hope he can keep continuing," Kohli said."He used to think too much about Test being too difficult and was trying to play differently. People have different ways of playing. He has certain ways of playing which he should not change. He will gain experience. Whether we have to draw a Test or play a session out, I'm sure he will develop that skill."He's feeling more confident about himself, about his contribution. He needs regular assurance of management to make him realise how good he can be with the bat. It's just a habit of getting 60, 70, 80. He's been very responsible as well."There may have been talks about the Eden Gardens pitch not offering turn like it was in Green Park, but Kohli said it would be a good batting wicket."No comments on wicket. We have all bases covered as team concerned. It looks a normal wicket. Surface is pretty nice. It always has a grass cover and should be a good wicket to bat on."