Flintshire headteacher blames pupils for accident outside school
Golftyn Lane, where two schoolboys struck by car near Connah's Quay High School on Tuesday morning

A headteacher has written to parents saying schoolboys were to blame for an accident outside a Flintshire high school and has defended a change of transport policy.

On Tuesday two boys riding a bike hit a car on Golftyn Lane at 8.30am on their way to Connah's Quay High School in Flintshire .

The two pupils were taken to the Countess of Chester Hospital and were discharged later on that day with minor injuries.

Since the start of the school year a new policy at the high school means the school gates are closed so the car park cannot be used by parents who are trying to drop off their children.

Headteacher Ann Peers said the gates should be closed after “several near misses, as parents drove on to site to pick up their children," last year.

But some parents have criticised the changes saying it will lead to more accidents.

Mrs Peers continues in letter and re-iterated the accident was not a result of the new closed-gate policy.

Google Golftyn Lane, near Connah's Quay High School

She wrote: "The incident involved two boys in year 8 who were both riding on one bike at speed without helmets down a steep incline just past Morrisons.

"The speed and the weight of the bike did not allow for safe breaking and they ran into the back of a car that was moving.

“The incident which undoubtedly some parents will attribute to the situation re parking was not a direct or indirect result of any congestion or queue coming into school but the actions of teenage boys.

Recap: Two schoolboys struck by car near Connah's Quay High School

"I wish to make clear that the closing of the school gates was not in any way linked to congestion or the incident that occurred.”

In the letter Mrs Peers also added: "The situation was very quickly under control with staff directing traffic and senior staff making the relevant calls to parents.

"We will in school continue to stress the importance of road safety both on bikes and on foot and would urge you as parents to reiterate this message."