Will ease troubles of small schools: Sisodia
Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday promised to create a single-window system for granting permissions required to run small-budget private schools.

“It’s very sad to hear that to start a small school one has to take permission from 35 different places. I will try to create a single-window system after a review of all aspects soon,” Sisodia said at a state conference here organised by National Independent School Alliance (NISA), Delhi Independent School Alliance (DISA), and Coordination Committee of Public Schools (CCPS).

What else is making news?

He also said that the sector of education has been groomed in the country in the same haphazard fashion as unauthorised colonies, despite there being an education department, capital investment and all other things.

“I am sure you have to keep taking permission from at least 25 places even after opening the school, for day-to-day running. A single-window system will address that issue,” he said.

NISA is an organisation of private school owners from across the country. These small schools are usually located in unauthorised colonies and cater to children from economically weaker sections of society.

They have been demanding relaxation in land norms, status of water, electricity connection from commercial to domestic, and a one-stop agency to deal with their issues, among others.

Read: Real education is respecting each other’s culture: Javadekar

“There is a need to understand that the Budget private Schools (BPS) are functioning in a different ecosystem and should be considered as a separate group within the private education system,” Kulbhushan Sharma, NISA National President, said.

“There is an urgent need of a Policy Review Committee which will help both the government and budget schools to discuss issues which will education for every child of this country,” he added.

The minister also agreed to work on the land norms relaxations for these schools.

For more news on Delhi schools, click here