Surgical strikes along LoC: Congress lauds effort of Indian Army
Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh salutes after the Press Conferences along with External Affairs Spokesperson Vikas Swarup, in New Delhi on Thursday. (Source: PTI) Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh salutes after the Press Conferences along with External Affairs Spokesperson Vikas Swarup, in New Delhi on Thursday. (Source: PTI)

The Congress party on Thursday congratulated the Indian Army for conducting a surgical strike along the Line of Control, hitting terror launch pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. “We congratulate the Indian army for undertaking surgical strikes on terror launch pads.We stand completely behind our Armed Forces,” tweeted senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel.

Reacting to the strike, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Raj Babbar also supported the move. He said,” If our army has taken a decision, the whole nation will support them.”

Former diplomat and Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor tweeted,”Proud of our Armed Forces for their successful strike against terrorist launch pads. Now govt must ensure the world understands and stands with us.”

Congress MP and Indian Premier League chairman Rajeev Shukla also commended the efforts of the Indian Army.

“Well done Indian Army. I salute your valour for the surgical strike to destroy the terrorist camps. The entire country stands with you,” tweeted Shukla.

Former Union Minister MM Pallam Raju, through Twitter, also congratulated the Indian Army saying,”India has exercised restraint far too long which has been interpreted as weakness by Pakistan. Proud of our armed forces. Well done.”

On the other hand, ANI reported Congress leader Digvijay Singh saying “let all the facts come” regarding the surgical attacks.

Earlier in the day, DGMO Lt General Ranbir Singh in a joint press conference by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Defence said that the Indian Army had successfully conducted surgical strikes along the LoC.

The surgical attacks came after repeated infiltration attempts across the Line of Control, with the Indian Army reportedly destroying seven terror launch pads. Although Pakistan have denied any such surgical attack, Pakistan’s defence ministry confirmed that two of its soldiers were killed in ‘cross-border’ firing.

Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif had earlier condemned the surgical strikes conducted by the Indian Army saying “our desire for peace should not be interpreted as our weakness”.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd