I am too scared to walk away from my abusive boyfriend
: I'm a 22 years old girl working in Bangalore. I've been in a relationship for the past 6 years. My boyfriend is a 31 year old business man. He's an arrogant person, may be because he was born with a silver spoon. I had a lot of friends before I started dating him but I had to stop meeting them because he didn't like it. I hardly have any friends now. Even in college he ensured that not a single guy talked to me. He abuses me and my family in the worst possible manner. He once even cheated on me with another girl and when I found out about it, I broke up with him. But soon I realised I still loved him despite the hurt he caused me. Unfortunately we got back together and things started getting normal. Now because I'm working in Bangalore, he is always doubting me and tortures me literally. He hits and abuses me badly in front of his friends. I'm all alone in life. I'm scared to talk about this to my parents because I don't want to hurt them. I know I don't have to do this but I feel I'm stuck. I can walk off but I'm scared. I don't know what to do after I walk out of this situation. Please help me.: The reason why we choose to remain in a toxic relationship is the fear - "what if I walk out and things get worse." We let ourselves get abused because we are constantly scared of 'change'. We live in an unjust environment where everyday we are insulted, mishandled and castigated - this leads to a marked deficiency of confidence and self esteem. Most times, because of repeated exposure to abuse we end up believing that maybe no one will love us.The most common thought for a person stuck in an abusive relationship could be, "this person who beats me up but does show love sometime, at least I know he loves me even if he abuses me, what if I leave him and find no one to love me. What will happen then?"I had a maid who used to come to me and tell me that her husband beats her up a lot. I kept telling her to leave the husband but she didn't. One day she came and told me that the beating has stopped. I congratulated her, to which she cried and said that she's really scared - now that her husband doesn't beat her up; which clearly means (to her) that he might be involved with another woman. This is what happens to our self esteem in such a relationship and this is the reason why we feel stuck.Remember, the moment you were born as a human, you were given the gift of "free will". And free will only means "choice". Exercise that choice and move ahead. The fact that this person abuses you has got nothing to do with you. It's got to do with 'himself' and his skewed notions of power and ego. Walk out!