Following strikes along LoC, schools 10 km from international border evacuated: Reports
New Delhi: Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh salutes after the Press Conferences along with External Affairs Spokesperson Vikas Swarup, in New Delhi on Thursday. India conducted Surgical strikes across the Line of Control in Kashmir on Wednesday night. PTI Photo New Delhi: Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh salutes after the Press Conferences along with External Affairs Spokesperson Vikas Swarup, in New Delhi on Thursday. India conducted Surgical strikes across the Line of Control in Kashmir on Wednesday night. PTI Photo

Following surgical strikes conducted by India on terrorist launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC), schools in Punjab, which are situated 10 km from the International Border with Pakistan, were told to shut down and evacuated on Thursday as additional BSF troops have moved in to secure the area, according to reports.

In the meantime, retreat ceremony at Attari has been cancelled and tourists have been asked to return.

Source: Express photo by Kamaldeep Brar Source: Express photo by Kamaldeep Brar

This development comes in the wake of surgical strikes conducted by India, which Pakistan has rejected. In a joint statement conducted on Thursday by the Ministry of External Affairs and Defence Ministry, DGMO Lt General Ranbir Singh said, “It has been a matter of serious concern that there has been many infiltration bids by terrorists at LoC. This is reflected in the terror attacks in Poonch and Uri on 11th and 18th September respectively.”

“Despite our persistent urging to Pak to not allow territory under its control to not be used for terrorist activities nothing was done. I spoke to the Pak DGMO, shared our concerns and told him that we conducted surgical strikes last night,” added Singh.

Outlining the motive behind the operation, Singh said the objective was to hit out at the terrorists who were planning to infiltrate into our territory. There were no Indian causalities during surgical strikes that were carried out in Pakistan territory last night by the Indian Army, said Singh.

READ: Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif condemns India’s surgical strikes along LoC

Meanwhile, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has condemned the surgical strikes. News agency ANI quoted him saying, “We condemn this attack, our desire for peace should not be interpreted as our weakness. We are ready for the safety and defence of our country.”

“Strongly condemned the unprovoked and naked aggression of Indian forces resulting in martyrdom of two Pakistan soldiers along LoC,” Sharif added.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd