After surgical strike, Rajnath Singh asks Punjab govt to evacuate villages near border
Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Badal over telephone this morning to request him to immediately start the process of evacuation of the people. (Source: File) Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Badal over telephone this morning to request him to immediately start the process of evacuation of the people. (Source: File)

After Army confirmed surgical strikes by its forces across LoC, Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday put the entire government and political machinery in an emergency mode.

Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Badal over telephone this morning to request him to immediately start the process of evacuation of the people residing in the villages falling within ten kilometres of the International border in view of the escalating situation.

While monitoring the current situation during an emergency meeting convened at his official residence, Badal directed the Chief Secretary and DGP, who were present in the meeting, to ask the concerned Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) to oversee the entire evacuation process in the border districts of Ferozepur, Fazilka, Amritsar, Taran Tarn, Gurdaspur and Pathankot.

The chief minister directed the DCs to identify suitable location for setting up camps and ensure that none of the residents being evacuated are put to any sort of inconvenience or hardships.

He also personally spoke to the concerned cabinet ministers and MLAs to camp in these border districts in which their assembly constituencies fall, to keep close liaison with the district administration to ensure the safe movement of the residents of the villages within the close proximity of International border.

Badal also directed the Chief Secretary to immediately release Rs. 1 crore each to all the Deputy Commissioners of six border districts to meet out any exigency arising out of these prevailing situation.

The chief minister has also called an emergency meeting of state cabinetto review the entire situation in the wake of recent developments on the border and advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, GoI.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd