India v NZ, 2nd Test, Kolkata: Doing cliched things key to batting in India, says Latham
KOLKATA: Describing India as one of the toughest places for batting, New Zealand opener Tom Latham on Thursday said they have to go back to doing the "cliched things" and rectify their mistakes quickly to save the three-match Test series."It's very difficult to start your innings here. Nothing really changes too much. You need to do all the cliched things, you need to start off an innings. We have to adapt quickly."I don't think we were too far away in the first Test. If we were able to do that with bat and ball we will have a good chance," the left-handed opener told reporters on the eve of the second Test beginning on Friday.The same rule applies while bowling and Latham said they would look to get early breakthroughs."Starting on these sorts of surfaces is the toughest thing. If we can apply pressure to the new batsmen in the first 10-20 balls then we will give ourselves some good chance. We have to keep doing it for longer."Latham said the energy-sapping hot and humid conditions make things difficult in the middle."The longer you bat, the harder it gets. You have to keep yourself hydrated. Our 12th man last time did a fantastic job running around with the drinks."The visitors squandered their chances after bowling out India for 318 as they conceded a 68-run lead before going down by 197 runs in the first Test in Kanpur."We played some good cricket in the first couple of days. We probably had the upper-hand on day three but managed to slip away from there. We just did not do things for long enough and India exploited us really well."Latham was dismissed by Ravichandran Ashwin in both the innings as the off-spinner returned with a match-haul of 10 wickets to set up the victory."He's a world class bowler which he showed in the last game. He has got some subtle natural variations. Hopefully we can pick up on them a little bit quicker. I'm looking forward to go into training and trying to rectify that."Martin Guptill may be out of form but Latham backed his senior opening partner to be back among runs at Eden Gardens."He has not scored the amount of runs he would have liked. We are extremely hard at the nets trying to rectify that. He showed a lot of intent in the first innings and got off to a good start. If he gets going then you never know. We are all working hard to perform for the team."Indian Test skipper Virat Kohli had earlier said they were open to use Decision Review System, and Latham too said it would be good for the game."We have had that back home in the past. It's a good system. It helps in getting rid of that wrong decision. Some major decisions are called correctly. Certainly we enjoy this back home. It will be great if that's the case."