DCW issues notice to CBI
New Delhi, September 29

The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday served a notice on the CBI, seeking details about the action taken by the agency after a tainted top government official and his son committed suicide allegedly due to harassment by a few of its officials. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said they have issued a notice to CBI director Anil Kumar Sinha asking about the steps being taken to conduct an "unbiased" inquiry in the matter.

(Follow The Tribune on Facebook; and Twitter @thetribunechd)

Two months after his wife Satyabala and Neha committed suicide, former Corporate Affairs Director General BK Bansal and his son Yogesh also hanged themselves on September 27. In suicide notes purportedly written by them, Bansal has alleged that a CBI DIG, two women officers and a "fat" Havaldar of the agency had tortured his wife and daughter after which both had committed suicide in July. "We have issued a notice to the CBI director seeking details about the action that will be taken against the CBI officers who have been named in the suicide notes. Are they registering an FIR against the officers concerned in the matter? We want details about how they are going to conduct a transparent and independent inquiry in the matter since the notes name a senior politician and high-ranking CBI officers," Maliwal said. In the notice sent to the CBI, the women's panel has sought to know whether a case of abetment to suicide has been registered against the officers named in the suicide note. The notice has also demanded to know whether the "possibility of conduction of narco-tests on all those named in the suicide note" is being explored. Maliwal said since Bansal wrote in his suicide note that the CBI was responsible for his wife and daughter's suicides, they have sought answers from the investigating agency. "The suicide notes have raised several questions on the CBI. BK Bansal, who was an accused in a corruption case, and who committed suicide along with his son, had written in his suicide note, that his wife and daughter committed suicide due to CBI harassment. We are not passing a judgement on whether he was corrupt or not, but we want answers from the CBI," she said. The DCW chief said the investigating agency has been given 48 hours to respond to the notice. "It's very tragic that the entire family committed suicide. We have given them 48 hours to respond. After their reply, we will do the needful. We will do everything that needs to be done," Maliwal said. —PTI