Evacuation ordered along border in Punjab
Tribune News Service

Chandigarh, September 29

Following instructions from the Centre, Punjab has ordered the evacuation of people from villages falling within 10 km of the border with Pakistan after India conducted surgical strikes across the LoC on Wednesday night. Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday put the entire government and political machinery in an emergency mode following reports of developments on the India-Pakistan border.

(Follow The Tribune on Facebook; and Twitter @thetribunechd)

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Badal on phone in the morning to request him to immediately start the process of evacuation of people residing in villages falling within 10 km of the international border in view of the escalating situation. During an emergency meeting convened at his official residence, Badal directed the Chief Secretary and DGP, who were present, to ask deputy commissioners (DCs) and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to oversee the entire evacuation process in the border districts of Ferozepur, Fazilka, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. The Chief Minister directed the DCs to identify suitable locations for setting up camps and ensure that none of the residents being evacuated were put to any inconvenience. The Chief Minister also spoke to the cabinet ministers and MLAs to camp in these border districts in which their assembly constituencies fell, to keep close liaison with the district administration to ensure the safe movement of the residents of the villages within close proximity of the border. Badal also directed the Chief Secretary to immediately release Rs 1 crore each to all deputy commissioners of six border districts to meet out any exigency arising out of the prevailing situation. The Chief Minister has also called an emergency meeting of the state Cabinet at 6 pm on Thursday to review the situation in the wake of the recent developments on the border and the advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The meeting was attended by Chief Secretary Sarvesh Kaushal, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister SK Sandhu, DGP Suresh Arora and Special Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Gaggandip Singh Brar. According to reports, schools in border areas have been closed.