We stand with govt on actions to ensure country’s security: Sonia
The Congress hailed a surgical strike carried out by the Indian Army against terror bases across the Line of Control (LoC), declaring that it stood completely behind the armed forces and the government over the action.

“We stand with the government in its actions to protect the country’s security,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said.

“The Congress expects that Pakistan will take effective action to dismantle infra of terrorism that it has supported,” she added.

Director general military operations (DGMO), Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, said the army carried out surgical strikes on terrorist launch-pads across the LoC, inflicting heavy casualties. The military action by India came 11 days after terrorists killed 18 Indian soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri.

Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, tweeted: “We congratulate the Indian army for undertaking surgical strikes on terror launch pads. We stand completely behind our Armed Forces.”

Live updates on Indian Army’s surgical strike

Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal said the entire country stood behind the armed forces.

भारत माता की जय। पूरा देश भारतीय सेना के साथ है — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) September 29, 2016

Read: Punjab border villages evacuated, no LoC trade after army surgical strike

Lt Gen Singh said India shared with Pakistani army details of the surgical strikes which followed “very specific information” that terrorists were positioning themselves along the LoC.

As part of the government’s efforts to take all political parties on board, home minister Rajnath Singh informed chief ministers of West Bengal, Odisha, Punjab and Bihar and other Opposition leaders about the army’s operation.

Singh also spoke to former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, CPI-M’s Sitaram Yechury and informed them about the military action on terror launch pads, an official source said.

Bharatiya Janata Party president Amit Shah, meanwhile, congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian Army after the announcement of the army’s operation. “I congratulate Modi and Indian Army for surgical strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir,” Shah tweeted.

Shah said the Indian Army had inflicted heavy damage on terrorists. The action “reaffirms army’s valour and commitment to the nation’s security”, he added.

He said it was for the first time in the fight against terrorism that India was feeling secure.

“I again salute the valour of the Indian Army for giving a befitting reply to those attacking innocent Indians and ensuring zero tolerance on terror,” he said.

Union minister Venkaiah Naidu said: “These ops are a part of the mandate of the Indian Army to foil any attempts of infiltration into our soil.”