Sony Xperia XZ with 23MP rear camera launched: Price, specifications and features
Sony Xperia XZ has been launched in India: Here are the specifications, feature and the pricing. Sony Xperia XZ has been launched in India: Here are the specifications, feature and the pricing.

Sony Xperia XZ with a 23MP rear camera has been announced in India. This is Sony’s first smartphone to feature triple image sensing technology and 5-axis video stabilization. The three sensors include colour sensing, distance sensing and image and focus sensing. Sony says 5-axis stabilization helps users take steady shots while making videos.

Sony Xperia XZ has a 5.2-inch full HD display with curved 2.5D glass design and Corning Gorilla Glass 4 for protection against scratches. This one has a metal back and fingerprint resistant coating on the rear as well. The Xperia XZ comes with the new Loop surface design.

It is powered by a 2.15GHz Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 3GB RAM and 64GB storage (expandable up to 200GB via microSD card). The front camera is 13MP which the company claims has 2.6 times bigger lens than any other smartphone in the market. It runs Android Marshmallow and will be upgraded to Android Nougat in 2-3 months.

Watch all our technology videos below

Sony Xperia XZ is a dual SIM smartphones and comes with support for 4G VoLTE for both SIM slots. It accepts two nano SIM cards. The smartphone has a 2,900 mAh battery with Quick Charge and company’s Qnovo battery charging technology. It supports USB Type-C. Connectivity options include 4G, VoLTE, ViLTE, VoWiFi, Wi-Fi, GPS, Bluetooth and NFC.

The power button on Xperia XZ doubles up as a fingerprint scanner. The Xperia XZ has IP65/68 rating for water and dust resistance.

Sony Xperia XZ will go on sale on offline platforms and Amazon India from October 10 at Rs 51,990. It is available in platinum, forest blue and mineral black colour options. The Xperia XZ is available for pre-order from October 1 to October 10, where customers will get a Smartband Talk-Sony SWR30 worth Rs 8,990 under the pre-booking offer.

Sony also launched MDR-XB50BS sports wireless earphones priced at Rs 5,490. The earphones are available via online and offline channels. The earphones are Bluetooth – enabled and have an IPX4 rating, which makes it splash proof. It provides music playback time of up to 8.5 hours. It has a built-in microphone that allows hands free HD voice calling as well.

Sony says its comfortable design makes the device apt for long hours of cycling, running, skating and jogging. Sony MDR-XB50BS has hybrid silicone rubber ear buds and the earphones support NFC.

Disclaimer: The correspondent is in Udaipur at the invitation of Sony India, which is paying for accommodation and travel

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd