Plastic bag charge: 'Window of opportunity' to bring in more charges
Image copyright Getty Images

A 5p charge for plastic bags in large stores was introduced in England a year ago next week, and research suggests it's had positive environmental effects with usage being radically reduced.

Some 90% of shoppers in England now use their own carrier bags, research for Cardiff University has suggested - up from 70% before the levy was introduced. This follows similar results in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

So could similar charges be applied to other items to help the environment?

Plastic bottles

Image copyright Thinkstock

Elena Sautkina, an expert in environmental psychology, believes that there is a "window of opportunity" to bring in further potential charges against plastic.

"Our research shows people are sensitive right now to the plastic waste arguments," she told the BBC News website.

Dr Sautkina, who was one of the academics behind Cardiff University's research, says bringing in a deposit return scheme for plastic bottles could be one of those ways.

Her research has shown that since the plastic bag charge was introduced public opinion in England has grown towards introducing a similar scheme for plastic bottles.

She surveyed a representative group of people spanning England, Wales and Scotland one month before the 5p bag charge was introduced, a month afterwards, and six months afterwards.

Her results saw what she termed as "strong support" for a plastic bottle deposit scheme grow over time in all three countries - from 16% to 20% in England, 23% to 25% in Wales and from 13% to 18% in Scotland.

Coffee cups

Image copyright Ben Pruchnie

The coffee cup waste problem is one which has only recently seemed to capture the attention of the general public.

Most consumers wrongly assume that the paper cups used are a "green" choice.

However, to make these cups waterproof, the card is fused with polyethylene, a material that cannot be separated out again in a standard recycling mill - and therefore the cups from the many High Street coffee chains cannot be recycled.

Dr Sautkina believes bringing in a charge for disposable coffee cups would garner support.

"People are buying the arguments being made about plastics, and I think charging for coffee cups could work in a similar way," she said.

'Excessive' packaging

Image copyright Thinkstock

One other area that Dr Sautkina's research team investigated was public opinion towards excessive plastic packaging.

Similar to the attitudes towards plastic bottles, her results suggested rises in support for paying an additional charge for produce that is individually wrapped in plastic.

Again she asked a representative group this question in three phases - one month before, a month after, and six months after the English 5p bag charge was brought in.

The sample size in each of three phases varied from 3,066 people in the first group, to 2,005 people a month afterwards and 1,230 people six months afterwards.

In England, she saw a rise in "strong support" for such a scheme from 13% to 18%, in Wales from 20% to 21% and in Scotland from 12% to 17%.

"As a marker we also asked for public opinion on increases on taxes paid on petrol and there was no such a rise," Ms Sautkina said.