Flipkart Big Billion Day 2016, Amazon Great Indian Sale, Snapdeal Deals: How to Stay on Top of Things
Big sales are around the corner - Flipkart's Big Billion Days Sale 2016, Amazon Great Indian Sale, and Snapdeal's Unbox Diwali Sale are all about to shower discounts on us, and if you need to get any new gadgets, then it's a great time. Even if you don't need new gadgets, it's a great time to get the ones you want. The problem, of course, is finding something in the plethora of deals that all the big sites are going to throw in your general direction.

(Also see: Flipkart Big Billion Day 2016, Amazon Great Indian Sale, Snapdeal Unbox Sale Offers to Go Head to Head)

Half the sales are going to be for items you're not interested in. While there are definitely going to be people out there who were waiting eagerly for a discount on combs, it's safe to say that most people were instead looking for deals on new TVs, phones, and other high value items. The sales cover a wide range of products though, and this makes finding the things you want difficult.

Add to this the fact that none of the e-commerce sites are above artificially inflating discounts and you have a bunch of "deals" that are best avoided further cluttering the offerings and forcing you to research everything even as there's a ticking timer making it harder to find the best deals. And since all the sales are happening simultaneously, you've got to check everywhere before you put down your money, or risk a bad case of buyer's remorse.

Of course, you should visit Gadgets 360 because if there are some great deals that we think our readers will benefit from, we will be letting you know about them. But apart from that, what else can you do?

Well, as we told you in an earlier article, there are a few simple things that can help. Make sure your apps are updated, that your payment details are saved, and if you're on the desktop, sign into the sites so you have fast checkout. Most of all, if there's any product that you really want, add it to your wishlist so that you can find it easily during the sales.

Since you're reading Gadgets 360, you probably want to buy electronics, and so we'd also recommend following @DealsForGeeks on Twitter - the handle picks out online deals and tweets them so you can find plenty of great offers that way. You can also sign up for alerts from them by visiting DealAlerts. You need to enter your name, and either your email ID or your Twitter handle, so that you can receive updates when products go on sale. We liked this because the team has stated that the IDs it collects are only for alerts, and these will be deleted after the festive season sale. You can list all the different products you're interested in, and get an alert if/ when they go on sale.

Apart from that, it's also a good idea to install a browser extension to allow you to check the prices of a product on all the major sites. This means that if you see what looks like a good deal on one site, then you don't have to waste time checking the others just to find out if it really is a deal.

And finally, just remember that deals aren't the end of the world. If you bought something at a higher price than someone you know, it doesn't mean you made a mistake, and it's not something you should stress over. Deals are a lot of fun, but don't take things too seriously.