Oppo Mobiles number two in smartphone market share by value in India: GFK
Oppo F1s was launched in August at Rs 17,990 and features a 16MP front camera Oppo F1s was launched in August at Rs 17,990 and features a 16MP front camera

Oppo Mobiles has overtaken Apple to take the second spot in the top 5 smartphone brands in India in terms of value for the month of August 2016 as per GFK data. According to Oppo, the company has grown by 16 per cent in comparison to the previous month after the launch of the Oppo F1s smartphone in August.

Sky Li, Oppo Global VP, MD of International Mobile Business and President of Oppo India, said, “India is a priority market for us. We have caught the trend that users, especially young generations like taking photos and selfies by phones. That’s why we have invested a lot in offering the consumers high quality camera phones with a strong focus on front camera. Going forward we will continue investing in photography technology, design and offering the best consumer experience.”

Watch our technology videos here

According to the vIndia Monthly Data (August 2016) Samsung is the top smartphone brand in India with 46.9 per cent market share in terms of value. Oppo is second on the list with a market share of 8 per cent. Apple, Lyf and Micromax come in at third, fourth and fifth with market shares of 6.3 per cent, 6.1 per cent and 5.4 per cent respectively.

In the premium segment, Oppo F1 Plus with its 16 megapixel front camera saw strong shipments. Chinese vendors captured now have a one-third share of this segment (above $300). Apple iPhone SE failed to boost market share for the company, with older iPhone 5S still being a hot favourite and driving volumes.

Oppo claims that the reason for its fast growth is thanks to the company’s ‘aggressive expansion of offline channel strategy’. The company has said that the offline presence has expanded to 35,000 Point of Sales and also 180 after sales service centres.

The company has also said in a statement that it is planning ‘something special this Diwali’, and will start October 6.

Read: Oppo F1s launched in India: Key specifications, features and price

Oppo F1s was launched in August and comes with a 5.5-inch HD display. The phone is powered by an octa-core MT6750 processor with 3GB RAM and 32GB internal storage. The rear camera on the phone is 13MP and the front is 16MP with Beautify 4.0. The phone was launched at Rs 17,990.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd