India vs New Zealand, 2nd Test, Kolkata: When and where is Ind vs NZ match, how to watch it live
India cricket team during the practice session at the Eden Gardens stadium in Kolkata on Thursday. (Source: AP) India cricket team during the practice session at the Eden Gardens stadium in Kolkata on Thursday. (Source: AP)

After winning the first Test against New Zealand in a convincing manner, India head to Kolkata for the second Test match. A win here will give the hosts an unassailable 2-0 lead and also the number rankings in Tests. The match at Eden Gardens begins Friday.

India have a long home season ahead and a win in the first series itself while will huge for the team. Also, India will have a chance to enter the next series as the top ranked team in the world.

New Zealand showed great fight in the first Test and had the upper hand till the third day, after which things began to fall apart. They were undone by India’s top spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja, who shared 16 wickets amongst themselves.

India will be without KL Rahul who is ruled out of the series due to hamstring injury. Gautam Gambhir, who returns to the team after two years, has been named his replacement. Ishant Sharma has also been ruled out of the match due to chikungunya. Jayant Yadav was asked to join the team in Kolkata.

New Zealand have also called in veteran Jeetan Patel in place of injured Mark Craig, who has been ruled out of the series.

When is India vs New Zealand 2nd Test at Eden Gardens, Kolkata?

The second Test match between India and New Zealand will take place at the Eden Gardens stadium in Kolkata. The first day’s play starts on September 30, 2016

What time does India vs New Zealand 1st Test start?

The first day’s play of second Test begins at 9:30 am IST and 4:00 GMT

Which TV channel will do the live broadcast of India vs New Zealand 2nd Test?

You can catch all the action Live on Start Sports 1, Star Sports HD 1, Star Sports 3 and Star Sports HD 3

How do I watch online live streaming of India vs New Zealand 1st Test?

The live streaming for the match can be accessed on starsports (dot) com and hotstar.com

What are the squads of two teams for India vs New Zealand 1st Test?

New Zealand Squad: Kane Williamson (capt), Trent Boult, Doug Bracewell, Martin Guptill, Tom Latham, Jimmy Neesham, Henry Nicholls, Luke Ronchi, Mitchell Santner, Ish Sodhi, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor, Neil Wagner, BJ Watling, Jeetan Patel

India Squad: Shikhar Dhawan, Murali Vijay, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli(C), Ajinkya Rahane, Rohit Sharma, Wriddhiman Saha(WK), Ravichandran Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Amit Mishra, Mohammad Shami, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Umesh Yadav, Gautam Gambhir, Jayant Yadav

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd