Young women 'highest mental health risk'
Image copyright Thinkstock

Young women are the highest risk group for mental health problems, according to new data released by NHS Digital.

One in five women reported a common mental disorder in 2014, compared to one in eight men, according to the survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing.

Young women also have high rates of self-harm and post traumatic stress disorder and bipolar.

Mental health charities said the figures showed "nothing had improved".

One in six adults in England has a common mental disorder (CMD) - such as anxiety or depression, according to the survey.

The National Study of Health and Wellbeing (also known as the Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey) has been carried out every seven years since 1993.

The 2014 data showed the gender gap in mental illness had become most pronounced in young people, and has increased since the first survey in 1993.

In 1993, 19% of 16-to-24 year old women surveyed reported symptoms of CMD compared to 8% of men of the same age.

In a snapshot, 26% of women aged between 16 and 24 reported symptoms of common mental disorders in one week compared to 9% of men in the same age group.

More women in every age group reported symptoms in one week compared to men in the same age group.

The second highest rate was in women aged 45-to-54 where 23% reported symptoms in a week - compared to 13% of men.

Self-harm

In 2014, CMD symptoms were almost three times as commonly reported by women of that age range - 26% compared to 9% in men.

Positive screenings for post-traumatic stress disorder were 12.6% for young women compared with 3.6% of men aged between 16 and 24.

CMD rates have steadily increased in women and remained largely stable in men, since the last survey in 2007.

Women were also more likely than men to report severe symptoms - 10% of women surveyed reported severe symptoms compared to 6% of men.

The proportion of the population reporting self-harming was 6% up from 4% in 2007 and 2% in 2000.

In 2014, one in five 16-to-24 year old women (25.7%) reported having self-harmed at some point.

That is about twice the rate for men in this age group (9.7%) and women aged 25-to-34 (13.2%).

The data showed a fifth of adults (20.6%) reported that they had thought of taking their own life at some point.

This was also more common in women (22.4%) than men (18.7%).

Accessing treatment

The data showed since 2007, people with CMD had become more likely to use community services and more likely to discuss their mental health with a GP.

One in three adults were accessing mental health treatment in 2014, up from one in four in 2007.

The study found medication was the most common form of mental health treatment for all conditions assessed - being taken by 10% of all people interviewed, while 3% reported receiving psychological therapy.

The study's authors note the increase in reporting of self-harming may have been due to greater awareness about the behaviour.

The data showed people who were white British, female, or aged 35 to 54 were more likely to receive treatment.

Most mental disorders were more common in people living alone, in poor physical health, and not employed.

Paul Farmer, chief executive of the mental health charity Mind, said the survey showed that "nothing has improved when it comes to the prevalence of mental health problems in England".

He added: "It's also particularly concerning to see the amount of women experiencing common mental health problems, such as depression and anxiety, has risen.

"It's shocking that a quarter of young women have been self-harming, and a fifth of adults have felt suicidal.

"It's still clear that nowhere near enough people are getting the support they need - in fact, more people than not are getting no treatment at all."

Have you been affected by mental health issues? Did you seek help to cope with your problems and what type of support did you receive? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: