Remains of at least six bodies found at historic Anglesey church
Human remains have been found in an historic Anglesey church

The remains of at least six bodies have been found under the floorboards of a historic church on Anglesey.

The human remains were found as part of a project to restore a world-renowned and rare 14th century stone tomb at St Gredifael’s Church, Penmynydd.

But experts believe that at least another half a dozen bodies are buried there.

The historically important church is home to a 14th Century alabaster tomb chest belonging to Gronw Fychan and his wife Myfanwy, ancestors of the Tudor royal dynasty who had strong links to Anglesey.

The discovery of the bones was made during the replacement of rotting floorboards to allow the tomb to be moved out for restoration in Llanrwst, as the old beams would not have been capable of withstanding its weight.

Historians believe the bones are likely to have been disturbed during earlier Victorian-era renovations at the church, although their exact age has not yet been determined.

A 3D image of the 14th Century Tomb at St Gredifael’s Church, Penmynydd

The excavations, funded by the Friends of St Gredifael are being carried out by the Gwynedd Archaeological Trust.

According to experts, it was customary to bury the rich inside the church and then move them to the graveyard outside.

But it appears, for reasons unknown, that these human skeletons remained inside.

Spencer Smith, who’s been a leading part of the excavation team, said: “The wooden floor of the north side of the church was not strong enough to take the weight of the panels the tomb is made up of, and consequently the floor was lifted in order to work out how to best replace it.

“When the floor was lifted, several very disturbed burials were found, which we believe had been disturbed during the construction of the wooden floor in 1848.

“The loose bone will be recorded and studied before reburial within the church and the graves discovered will be recorded but the bodies left within them.”

He added: “The alabaster tomb will be dismantled into pieces and moved from its position in the north chapel and taken away for conservation in Llanrwst.”