Amazing moment motorway PC saves unconscious mum and baby in out-of-control car
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

This is the astonishing moment a police officer used his patrol car to save the lives of a mum and baby in an out-of-control car.

Calm-headed Danny Pattison was on the M1 when he saw the vehicle swerve in the road after its driver fell unconscious.

He used his BMW to force the car against a crash barrier to bring it to a dramatic stop.

PC Pattison received the Leicestershire Police Chief Constable’s Commendation for his decisive action, which was captured by his dashcam.

He had just dealt with another collision on April 11, when a flurry of 999 calls made it clear something serious was happening on the M1.

He headed initially suspected that a drunk-driver was behind the wheel.

Leicestershire Police

But the true level of danger dawned when Danny pulled alongside the car and saw the driver’s head flopped back, staring blankly above as she drifted in a diabetic coma while the engine revved, suggesting the accelerator was being pressed.

The stakes increased again as he saw a baby sitting in the back.

Disaster loomed as the car threatened to leave the road, bouncing off the kerb and he realised he had to act.

He said: “Her head completely thrown back and she was staring at the roof of the car. She was obviously unconscious.

“I looked in the back of the car and saw a young child - about 18 months old.”

Pc Pattison relayed information about the incident to the control room, while all the time thinking about the possibly disastrous way the situation could end.

“I thought ‘This is going to end up with her and the baby getting killed’”

With a colleague keeping the three lanes clear behind in a ‘rolling road’, Danny drove his car into the runaway vehicle to force it against the barrier to slow it before pulling in front to bring it to a stop.

Upon removing the keys from the ignition he discovered that the driver’s foot had been wedged on the accelerator.

The woman, who made a quick recovery, said: “When I was told exactly what had happened I was very emotional.

“Had it not been for the actions of the officers bringing my car to a stop, I dread to think what the outcome may have been.”