Top jobs that Indians prefer and why
The IT industry employs about a 10-million workforce. (Thinkstock photo) The IT industry employs about a 10-million workforce. (Thinkstock photo)

We are considered a young nations as around 5 million-plus youngsters graduate from various educational institutions annually. Most of them start looking for jobs shortly before and immediately after graduation. While only 5 per cent of graduates come from the top schools. Take a quick check on the job choices made by the other 95 per cent.

What else is in news

Government jobs

Right on the top of the list are the government jobs. The civil service of the Central Government is organised into four groups, viz. Group `A’ (which includes all-India Service) Group `B’, Group `C’ and Group `D’. Such classification broadly corresponds to the rank, status and the degree of the level of responsibility attached to the posts.

Group `A’ posts carry higher administrative and executive responsibilities and include senior management positions in the ministries/departments and field organisations. The middle and junior levels of Group `A’ alongwith Group `B’ constitute middle management.

Group `C’ posts perform supervisory as well as operative tasks and render clerical assistances in ministries and field organisations. Group `D’ posts are meant for carrying out routine duties.

The first job in the government category is the State Service Commission (SSC) jobs. The second in the list is Public Sector Bank (PSU) Probationary Officer jobs. The third preference will be a job in the railways.

The private sector – IT Industry

In the private sector, the number one job preferred by graduates is in the IT industry. Today, the dream of every graduate is to get a job in the IT industry because of the excellent pay and global HR practices. India is the world’s largest sourcing destination for the IT industry, accounting for approximately 67 per cent of the $124–130-billion market. The industry employs about a 10-million workforce.

READ: Tips on how to prepare for a job interview

Testing jobs are the most attractive career option for a B Sc graduates. A quality assurance testing engineer is responsible for effective testing of software systems to identify any issues and bugs that need to be rectified. Your work will involve mostly testing for functionality. ‘Functionality testing’ in the software industry, means testing the behaviour of a software feature under various situations (called ‘use cases’). You will need to help the programmer debug software by sharing your test results. It is a highly technical and important role.

If you are a BCA or someone with BSc Computer Science degree, there is also an interesting role in Remote Infrastructure Engineer. The remote infrastructure engineer/executive is responsible for efficient handling of all remote access systems of a particular company, as well as planning and designing remote access infrastructure. A good example is the bank ATM which is monitored remotely.

The pharma industry

The role of medical representatives is preferred in the pharma industry. When we visit clinics or hospitals, we often find people holding huge bags with samples of medicines. They are called medical representatives and are hired by pharmaceutical companies to market their products.

According to Indian regulations, most medicines (called prescription drugs) cannot be bought by a patient without a doctor’s prescriptions from a chemist shop. Medical representatives thus act like a link between pharma companies and doctors so that the company’s drugs can be prescribed. They visit healthcare professionals on a one-to-one basis and give presentations to them. They also give samples of some medicines.

The insurance industry

In the insurance industry, development officers is a very common career option for graduates — insurance agents are not employees of the insurance company and require continuous supervision, encouragement, and support. The insurance company employee who manages a group of Agents is called a development officer (by LIC, India’s largest life insurance company), or unit manager or agency manager (by private insurance companies).

Administrative Officers (AO) are assigned to specific departments like marketing, underwriting, claims, legal, depending on the requirement. They verify the risk proposal and underwrite if need be. They delegate work to assistants within the team and oversee their performance.

Read: How to prepare for Maths in competitive exams

The civil aviation industry

In the aviation industry, cabin crew is viewed as a glamorous and well-paying job. The members of the cabin crew (an airhostess/or a flight attendant) are those responsible for the safety and comfort of passengers on board. They assist passengers during boarding. They are also first-aid trained and ensure that passengers get medical attention during times of need.

Ground staff – When a passenger reaches the airport she/he is often guided by people belonging to the airport or airline ground staff to the check-in counter. There other ground staff members seated behind the counter to issue boarding passes, check the baggage in and other duties. They manage the check-in process by checking passenger ID cards, allocating seats, weighing the baggage, tagging and transferring the baggage to be loaded on to the flight.

— T Muralidharan, founder and chairman of TMI Group

For more news on education, click here

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd