Army conducts surgical strikes along LoC: How Indian leaders reacted
Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh addresses a Press Conference in New Delhi on Thursday. (PTI Photo) Director General Military Operations (DGMO), Ranbir Singh addresses a Press Conference in New Delhi on Thursday. (PTI Photo)

Days after the Uri attack, Indian Army conducted surgical strikes along the LoC in Pakistan where seven terror launch pads were targeted overnight, using heliborne and ground forces on Thursday. Addressing a press conference later, DGMO Lt Gen Ranbir Singh said India inflicted “significant casualties” on terrorists and those who are trying to support them.

“During these counter terrorist operations significant casualties were caused to terrorists and those providing support to them. The operations aimed at neutralizing terrorists have since ceased. We do not have any plans for further continuation. However, the Indian Armed Forces are fully prepared for any contingency that may arise,” the DGMO said. No Indian casualties occurred during the surgical strikes that were carried out last night by the Indian Army.

Watch what else is making news

PM Narendra Modi had informed President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice President Hamid Ansari and former Prime Minister Mahmohan Singh on the surgical strikes. Neither one of them have officially reacted to Thursday’s operation.

Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, CPI-M’s Sitaram Yechury and informed them about the military action on terror launch pads. Even as Ghulam Nabi Azad congratulated the security forces ” for being successful in the operation”, Yechury said, “We have seen our DGMO briefing, saw the Pakistani reaction, besides that we have no official information.”

Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said that her party stands with the government in its actions to protect our country’s security and deal with the menace of terrorism from across the border. In a statement, Gandhi said, “The Congress Party congratulates the armed forces on the success of the operation and offers its support to the government in our country’s continuing battle against cross-border terrorism.” External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj briefed Gandhi about the strikes.

Hailing the Army and PM Modi’s leadership, BJP President Amit Shah said, “In this long war against terrorism a clear response has been given to terrorists by destroying their breeding centre for the first time… (Thursday’s) strikes signal the rise of a new India where the Government doesn’t get cowed down by nefarious designs of terrorists.”

Union Minister M Venkaiah Naidu stressed that Pakistan should realise its responsibility towards ensuring peace in the region, he said, “Hope at least now Pakistan will realise its folly and stop aiding and abetting terrorism against India,” adding that, so far, India’s “positive gestures” were only reciprocated through “further encouragement” to terrorists and also “justifying” the terrorist acts.

Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that “the real message has been sent to Pakistan”. Reacting to Pakistan calling the strikes “naked” and “unprovoked”, Tharoor said, “What does Pakistan mean by ‘unprovoked’? Killing 18 of our soldiers is not provocation?” adding that, “Whatever Indian Army did was very sensible, measured & proportionate form of retaliation.”

Terming the strikes as a pre-emptive action, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said in a series of tweets, “India is capable of repelling all forces that subvert peace in the region…We are proud of #IndianArmy for taking pre-emptive action & repelling terrorists’ attempt to destabilise peace & tranquility in the region.”

Minister for Power, Coal, Renewable Energy and Mines Piyush Goyal said: “Congratulations to the Indian Army for #SurgicalStrikes to safeguard our nation. We are committed to fighting against terror in the region.”

Minister for Law and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “Surgical strikes were conducted when Pakistan didn’t mend ways after repeated diplomatic efforts 2 check terrorism originating frm their soil.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd