PM Modi Has Given Another Window Of Opportunity To Pak
Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has opened another window of opportunity for Pakistan by calling for a joint war against poverty, Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti today asked the neighbouring country to understand that such opportunities do not come daily."The call of Modiji to Pakistan and its people for war against poverty has no answers (from them). Pakistan, its people and its leadership should understand its meaning," Mehbooba Mufti said."There is no answer to his remarks... Despite Pathankot, Modiji went to Lahore for peace but Uri happened," she said.Ms Mufti said Pakistan should understand that PM Modi has given them another window of opportunity for friendly relations, peace and normalcy in the region."Despite this (Uri) and huge pressure, Modiji as a statesman gave another window (of opportunity) to Pakistan... If Pakistan will not even today understand this, it will not get such opportunities daily," she said."Recently there was a cry for war and attack on Pakistan -- do this and do this kind of environment. But the reply came from our the PM. It was more than hydrogen or atom bomb when he (PM) declared a war against poverty," she said.The chief minister said had it been former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in such a situation, he would have said the same thing."I am hopeful that the strike, PM called for against Pakistan will definitely have results. Our biggest problem is poverty. If problems of conflicts and smaller problem would have not been faced by India, our country would much more developed and prosperous," she said.Referring to the ongoing unrest in Kashmir, she said, "We are passing through trying times and a test. The situation is slowly improving in Kashmir."Maintaining that war is never an option to resolve issues, Mehbooba Mufti pitched for amicable relations between India and Pakistan to fight the poverty and economic deprivation plaguing the region while underlining the need of a bilateral dialogue to resolve issues."The two nuclear armed neighbors must cooperate in the fields of social development, including eradication of poverty and with their growing economies and energy needs, and the need for newer, more diverse markets and trading opportunities, the future of the troubled region has to be defined by common economic interests instead of hostilities," she said."Instead of fighting wars with each other, the two countries should join hands to eradicate poverty and to address social problems plaguing the region... Modi went to Pakistan with this message on behalf of people of J&K but the Pathankote incident shattered that process," she said.The chief minister said as in any violent situation, women have suffered the most in Jammu and Kashmir."In Kashmir, women have become primary victims of the violent situation over the last three decades which hasn't led us anywhere. Our party became the harbinger of peace when my father, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, spoke of nursing the wounds of people when the memory of Kargil war was still afresh," she said.