Ranchi: Man held for killing wife, nearly a week after marrying her
According to the police, the body of Sonia Minj, aged around 25, a resident of Valmiki Awas in Namkum area, was found near the road in Hethu village on the road leading to it from the airport on Wednesday morning. According to the police, the body of Sonia Minj, aged around 25, a resident of Valmiki Awas in Namkum area, was found near the road in Hethu village on the road leading to it from the airport on Wednesday morning.

A 22-year-old man was on Thursday arrested by the Ranchi police for allegedly killing his wife, whose body was found near Ranchi Airport.

According to the police, the body of Sonia Minj, aged around 25, a resident of Valmiki Awas in Namkum area, was found near the road in Hethu village on the road leading to it from the airport on Wednesday morning.

The police identified her body with the help of the name of the accused, Pradeep Son, written on her palm, as she was married to him only a few days ago. “Initial investigations revealed that Pradeep had established sexual relation with the woman. She had become pregnant. When Pradeep came to know, he backtracked from his earlier promise of marrying her. The woman initially left for Delhi, where she used to work in a private firm. However, in mid-September, she returned and lodged a complaint against him at the Mahila thana,” said an official associated with the case.

The accused and the woman were counseled and the two agreed to marry. Reportedly, they got married at Pahari Mandir around a week ago. On September 27, Sonia’s parents lodged a complaint at Namkum police station saying that she had gone amiss. Pradeep too was missing. The police registered a case of murder. The body was recovered two days later.

“He was arrested this afternoon. Initial interrogation has revealed that he was angry with her and did not want to continue their marriage. He hit her on the head several times with stone killing her on September 27. He packed the body in a carton and dumped it in the night in Doranda area,” said Office-in-charge Namkum, Rajendra Dubey.