How common are child abductions in the UK?
Police have stepped up patrols in Oxford after a teenage girl walking to school was abducted and sexually assaulted.

It's every parent's worst nightmare. But how common are child abductions?

The charity Action Against Abduction, formerly Pact, estimates that roughly 50 children under the age of 16 are abducted by strangers every year.

Its report Taken, which used data from UK police forces in 2011-12, found that 42% of all abduction attempts were made by strangers - and three quarters of the attempts were unsuccessful.

The average age of abducted children in the UK was 13, while the average age of children who suffered attempted abductions by non-parental perpetrators was 11, according to the report.

But Action Against Abduction also suggest many attempted abductions are not reported to police.

Worst case scenarios

Geoff Newiss, chief executive of Action Against Abduction, said the "old fashioned scenario" of a man luring a young girl into a car has not changed all that much.

However, he said: "People tend to think of the very worst case scenarios - the Sarah Payne case or April Jones. They tend to think about murder. But there are a very small number of homicides".

Both eight-year-old Sarah Payne and five-year-old April Jones were abducted and killed by paedophiles in 2000 and 2012 respectively.

Image copyright PA Image caption Eight-year-old Sarah Payne was abducted and killed in 2000

Mr Newiss pointed to the "varying degrees" in severity of abduction attempts, adding: "The majority are indecent exposure cases".

NSPCC figures show the number of child sex offences reported to the police throughout the UK rose to a record 45,456 last year - 124 a day.

The charity has warned that the internet is used as gateway to set up sexual assaults, grooming and rape.

'Unreported attempts'

Following the abduction of the Oxfordshire schoolgirl on Wednesday, an NSPCC spokesman said: "This has been a horrific experience for the girl and her family and parents in the area will understandably be very worried, but thankfully random abductions of children are relatively rare.

"It's essential that the perpetrators are caught before they harm any other children and that the girl is offered whatever support she needs to recover and to give evidence if a successful prosecution is brought."

The problem is that many attempts go unreported, said Mr Newiss.

He estimates that one in every 100 children face an abduction attempt at some point in their childhood or teenage years.

"The police numbers are the tip of the iceberg," he said.

"It's important to tell the police about attempted abductions as there may be more than one incident in an area which is important. They can't do anything if it's not reported".

Brian Lightman, former general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said while schools have "extremely rigorous" safety checks in place preventing strangers from entering school compounds, outside the school gates people need to be vigilant.

Mr Lightman said: "There is a need to be vigilant - to be careful and educate your children of the dangers - but also the need to ensure that there's a balance.

"Remember that they [abductions] are very rare. You can closet children too much."

He advised children to walk to school in groups and for parents to always be aware of where their children are.

'Stranger danger'

Mr Newiss said the biggest concern is that people still talk about "stranger danger" - the government's awareness campaign which began in 1971.

"This comes from the early 70s and it just doesn't work now. We want to see an end to that focus on strangers and more aware of danger in general," he said.

He said that too often children are told to do as adults say, but that they should be made aware that no adult should ask them for help, or ask them to get in a car.

"Children need to be told to trust their instincts more," he said, urging people to join the charity's Safe, Not Scared campaign as an alternative approach.

Image copyright PA Image caption The government's "stranger danger" campaign was in part a reaction to events such as the Moors' murders

Back in 1971, the government was responding to some horrific cases of child abduction, including the Moors murders and the Cannock Chase murders of the 1960s.

That year, the Home Office recorded just 33 child abductions in England and Wales. These included all types of abduction - parental, other family, known but not related and stranger - as well as completed and attempted abductions.

In 2014-15, according to a report by Action Against Abduction, there were 1,141 cases, including 618 non-parental abduction attempts across England, Wales and Northern Ireland, according to Action Against Abduction.

However, the charity has warned against interpreting the jump since the 1970s as a real increase, explaining that police reporting processes have changed a great deal during that time.