Save Our Salmon: Anglers in Wales urged to release all caught fish as crisis deepens
Anglers in Wales are being urged to help struggling fish stocks by releasing all the salmon they catch between now and the end of the season.

Natural Resources Wales (NRW) issued the plea amid concerns that salmon stocks in some Welsh rivers are facing “unprecedented” threats.

Monitoring data shows that fry numbers have plummeted and the number of salmon migrating back to Wales is also said to be “worryingly low”.

The situation is so serious that all angling clubs and private fisheries should consider full catch-and-release byelaws to avoid the “need for legislation”, said NRW.

Failure to safeguard salmon stocks could have profound effects on the country’s angling and tourism sectors, said Dave Mee, senior fisheries advisor for NRW.

He said desperate situations required desperate remedies.

“The last few weeks of the season often see the highest catches,” he said.

“Many anglers are already voluntarily practising catch and release, and have been doing so for many years.

“But now we feel the situation is so serious for salmon that we must urgently ask anglers to release all of their salmon while we consider what future controls may be required.

“Every effort must be made to give salmon the chance to spawn and produce more juvenile fish to help boost stocks.”

Nearly half of salmon not being released

On average, 78% of Welsh salmon are currently released after being caught.

But as this includes the pre-June 16 period, when catch-and-release fishing is required by byelaw, the true rate is thought to be just over 50%.

Figures from the Wye and Taff, where full catch-and-release byelaws are in place, suggest this can quick revive fish stocks without affecting angler numbers.

Rhys Llywelyn, president of the Welsh Salmon and Trout Angling Association, said anglers should use methods that give released salmon the best chance of survival.

Dead fish found in Llangefni river prompts investigation into 'pollution incident'

These include using barbless hooks so that fish can be released easily, and not removing the fish from the water while unhooking.

“Keeping a fish in the air for 30-60 seconds literally halves their chance of survival,” he said.

One explanation for the alarming declines is last winter's high river temperatures

Reasons for declines under investigation

NRW is still investigating the cause of the declines.

Possible explanations range from extremes of river flow last winter to high water temperatures in affected rivers – last December was the warmest and wettest on record .

Disease and parasites are thought unlikely. Some have blamed the closure of salmon hatcheries on the low fry numbers.

Others believe that NRW’s salmon fry findings indicate more serious underlying problems such as sediment and phosphate pollution.

Fishing charity launches survey of 'shocking' Welsh rivers

This autumn Salmon & Trout Conservation UK is to fast-track a planned monitoring programme amid concerns at the “shocking” state of rivers in Wales.

It intends to measure invertebrate levels on the Usk, Clwyd and Eastern Cleddau, the rivers with the biggest falls in salmon fry numbers.

S&TC’s Riverfly Census will assess the threats not just for salmon fry but other aquatic species too.

A recent report found that 61% of Wales’ rivers do not meet “Good Ecological Status” as required under the Water Framework Directive.

Sewage works, septic tanks, abstraction, agricultural run-off and degraded river habitats were among the factors blamed.