Bangor University scientists launch lugworm sex life study and they want YOU to help them
Lugworm activity on a beach - now Bangor University scientists want North Wales residents to keep an eye out for similar signs

Scientists at Bangor University want your help to study the sex lives of worms.

Boffins are now asking the people of North Wales to keep an eye out for signs of passion in the lugworm population as part of a new project.

The Arenicola marina - more commonly known as the lugworm – plays an important role in fisheries as a source of bait and is a vital source of food for wader birds and fish.

But the species’ mating opportunities are limited as lugworms spend most of their lives burrowed deep in the sediment.

Instead, the males release sperm which collects in ‘puddles’ on the surface of the sand.

The sperm is then washed down into the burrows of the females and fertilises her eggs when the tide comes in.

To trigger the release of the sperm and the egg at the same time very specific environmental conditions are needed and very little is known about the process.

Now scientists are calling on members of the public to join its ‘Spermwatch’ project as “citizen scientists” in a bid to uncover more information.

Professor Stuart Jenkins, Capturing Our Coast Principal Investigator, Bangor University, School of Ocean Sciences, said: “Anyone who takes a walk at low tide on a sandy beach will be familiar with the coiled casts of lugworms.

“This project allows us, through engaging with hundreds of citizen scientists, to get deeper insight into their reproductive life around the UK.

“Such simultaneous observations over a broad geographic area simply wouldn’t be possible through any other means.”

The project is part of a wider conservation project called Capturing our Coast, a partnership between universities, conservation and research organisations.

These include Bangor University, Newcastle University, Marine Conservation Society and Earthwatch.

Capturing our Coast is a three year programme funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund.

The ‘Spermwatch’ initiative will be launched during a special event on Llanfairfechan beach this Saturday between 3pm and 6pm.

Anyone with an interest in taking part in the initiative is welcome to attend.

To take part, download an instruction book online and get recording.

What do you think of this story? Let us know by using the commenting feature below