Mold solar panel firm boss in court ... over blocking out neighbours' sunlight
The boss of a firm that sells solar panels was in court over a garden hedge that was so high it was blocking out neighbours' sunlight

A couple who run a solar panel business ended up in court over blocking out their neighbours’ sunlight.

Vivian Davies and his partner Deborah Kirby, both 56, had failed to cut back a hedge that was so high it was blocking out light to the home and garden of their neighbours Gary and Louise Bateman.

Flintshire county council served an order on Mr Davies and Ms Kirby, who run Solar Eco Solutions Ltd, demanding that they deal with the 10-metre high hedge at their property in Main Road, New Brighton, near Mold.

But they failed to carry out the order to prune it back to 3.5 metres, instead cutting it back to six metres.

That didn’t satisfy the council’s demands. The couple’s lawyer claimed that they believed they didn’t have to carry out the notice as they were appealing against the decision.

But Flintshire magistrates court today heard that no appeal had been lodged, and the government’s planning inspectorate had refused to extend the deadline for the work to be done because the pair could not produce any evidence an appeal had been lodged.

A bird's eye view of one of North Wales' largest solar farms

Mr Davies and Ms Kirby had claimed they had been away when the demand to chop the tree back had arrived and had not seen it until a couple of weeks later. They claimed they posted it off just before Christmas.

Their defence solicitor Brian Koffman told magistrates that to convict the couple they would have to believe that they had “made up” the copy of the appeal notice they had produced to the court, or had prepared it at the time and never got round to posting it.

But the magistrates said they found the evidence of the council officials consistent and reliable.

Despite their good character, magistrates said that they did not find the defendants to be reliable witnesses.

They determined that the appeal notice had not been sent to the inspectorate as they had claimed.

Council boss takes blame in tree row

Both were found guilty of failing to comply with the remedial order, under The Anti-social Behaviour Act, 2003, between March 7 and May 17.

Magistrates said that they would not fine them, or order them to pay compensation for the £320 cost of making the complaint so as not to aggravate matters between them and their neighbours.

But they were ordered to pay £1,000 costs each and the court ruled that the original notice to reduce the height of the hedge had to be complied with by November 30 this year.