Surgical strikes: One with the Govt, says Opposition, Pak should now crack down on terror
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar leaves after attending an all party meeting following Indian army’s surgical strikes along the LoC. (Express Photo by Oinam Anand) Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar leaves after attending an all party meeting following Indian army’s surgical strikes along the LoC. (Express Photo by Oinam Anand)

Days after criticising the government’s response to the Uri attack earlier this month, the Congress-led Opposition Thursday joined hands to back the Army’s “surgical strikes” on terrorist launchpads across the LoC, with some leaders expressing hope that there would be no further escalation in hostilities.

The Opposition’s reaction came after the government briefed an all-party meeting about last night’s operation, and External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj drove across to 10, Janpath, at around 4 pm to brief Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The Congress chief has stayed out of public sight after being discharged from hospital in mid-August following an operation.

Hours after details of the strikes were revealed, Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, along with five senior ministers, met leaders from various Opposition parties at his North Block office where they were briefed by DGMO Lt Gen Ranbir Singh.

The leaders, including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, NCP’s Sharad Pawar, JD(U)’s Sharad Yadav, BSP’s S C Mishra and RJD’s Prem Chand Gupta, were informed that the Army operation took place at two points across Kupwara and Poonch. No further operational details were shared. Yechury told The Indian Express that they were told that more details were being collected from troops returning back to their bases.

Sources said Yechury sought to know whether such terrorist launchpads were usually located so close to the LoC. The government clarified that while the terrorists’ camps were located deep inside, they had come near the LoC to cross into Indian territory.

Apart from Rajnath Singh, the leaders representing the government at the briefing were Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Defence Minister Manohar Parikkar, Information and Broadcasting Minister Venkaiah Naidu, and Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan.

Over the last ten days, the Congress had been urging the government to respond strongly to Pakistan, trying in the process to build a narrative that Prime Minister Narendra Modi “was not walking the talk” on this issue.

But on Thursday, it backed the government fully. Sonia said in a statement that the party “stands with the government in its actions today to protect our country’s security and deal with the menace of terrorism from across the border”. She said that the strike was a “strong message that conveys our country’s resolve to prevent further infiltration and attacks on our security forces and our people”.

Congratulating the Army, she hoped that “Pakistan will recognise that it bears a great responsibility in the continuing cross-border terrorist attacks against India” and said that she expected Islamabad to take “effective action to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism that it has supported…”

Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “All of us stand firmly united against terrorism and those who support and sponsor it. The Congress Party and I salute the Indian Army and our jawans for acting valiantly to defend our country and our people. Jai Hind.”

Former defence minister and senior Congress leader A K Antony told The Indian Express that the strike was “inevitable” since infiltration by terrorists trained by the Pakistan Army is continuing unabated. “Given the situation, it was an inevitable action. I congratulate the Army and the government. Pakistan should now stop sending terrorists into India. There is a limit to India’s patience.”

CPM general secretary Yechury hoped there would be no “further escalation in hostilities” and asked the government to “ensure the safety and security of our people from cross-border terrorism”.

Yechury also asked the government to continue “diplomatic and political moves to defuse tensions”. “We hope that now incidents like those at Pathankot and at Uri will not recur,” he said.

Naidu told reporters after the all-party briefing that “details were given by the DGMO about five-six places across the LoC along Kupwara to Poonch”. The troops involved in the operation were reaching their headquarters, and that some were returning from an altitude of 6,000 ft, he said.

“All political parties complimented the Indian Army enormously. They assured that they were totally with the government to face any situation. They were all very happy,” said Naidu.

“The feedback we are receiving is that the entire country is very happy about the swift action taken by the Indian Army,” he said.

While JD(U)’s Sharad Yadav said that “all parties spoke in one voice”, RJD’s Gupta said the leaders backed the government for “all actions being taken in the interest of the nation”.

However, former minister of state for defence and Congress leader M M Pallam Raju struck a note on caution while speaking to reporters in Hyderabad and asked the government not “pat its back” yet, as Pakistan was expected to retaliate.

“I think this is a good retribution. But at the same time, we have to be prepared. Let’s not pat ourselves on our backs. We should also be prepared for retaliation from their end,” said Raju.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd