Flintshire pensioner died after fall at Ysbyty Glan Clwyd where doctor was too busy to see him
A hospital doctor who was summoned to see an elderly patient who had fallen never managed to see him because she was too busy, an inquest heard.

It was not realised that 82-year-old Glyn Haydn Roberts had fractured his skull in the fall, but soon after Dr Claire Dunne had finished her 12-hour shift his condition deteriorated and he died a few hours later.

At a hearing in Ruthin today John Gittins, coroner for North Wales East and Central, said while he sympathised with the volume of work facing junior doctors he was concerned Dr Dunne had been too busy to respond to her “bleeper”.

However, he said that before issuing a Regulation 28 notice with a view to preventing future deaths he would see whether an action plan already adopted was proving effective.

Mr Roberts, a retired local government officer, died at Glan Clwyd Hospital on October 25, 2015, four days after being admitted. He was suffering from bladder cancer and although he was a medical patient a shortage of beds meant he was on a surgical ward.

On October 24 he fell while apparently going to the en-suite and although he had a minor abrasion to his temple he told staff he was not in pain. He was put back to bed and Dr Dunne, who was working on the medical wards but was also responsible for medical patients on surgical wards, was “bleeped”.

Ward manager Jane Scott told the inquest she was aware of the pressures on the medical wards at the time, but said: “Usually there are doctors available, but if not we go through the chain of nurses.

Asked by the coroner if there was an on-going problem about doctors being unable to respond to calls for assistance by nurses, Mrs Scott said mechanisms were now in place to overcome the problem.

“Now, if there is an issue we escalate it to senior nurses and to higher grades until we get a response.”

Following a serious case review various steps had been taken to clarify what should be done when patients fell.

Dr Dunne said after being given an outline of the situation and Mr Roberts’s condition on the phone she did not consider he needed to be seen immediately.

She remained busy elsewhere for four hours until the end of her shift.

“It was a reflection of the volume of work we had that day,” she said.

A post-mortem examination showed Mr Roberts, of Kingsbury Close, Flint, died of a fractured skull, and the coroner recorded a conclusion of accidental death.

He said he had recently issued a Regulation 28 notice following an inquest into another patient who fell while in hospital and he wanted to see whether the changes referred to by Mrs Scott were effective.

“I think we have to see how the system works and whether it enables a better and more timely response to be made, and for nurses to be assured they can get the assistance they need,” he said.