Surgical strikes: Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif calls joint session of Parliament on October 5
Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif is being briefed regularly on the situation on the LoC by the security establishment. (Source: File) Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif is being briefed regularly on the situation on the LoC by the security establishment. (Source: File)

In the wake of India’s conduct of surgical strikes across the Line of Control, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has called a joint session of the Parliament on October 5.

“Joint session of the Parliament will be convened on Wednesday to reaffirm the national resolve for safeguarding the sovereignty and preserving the territorial integrity of the motherland against any kind of external or internal threat as well as reiterating the moral, political, and diplomatic support to the people of Kashmir,” Prime Minister Sharif said, reports Geo News.

He further said that a meeting of the National Security Committee will be held on October 4 with special invitation to all the Chief Ministers to deliberate at length the emerging scenario across the Line of Control and also in the Valley.

Meanwhile, Pakistan National Security Adviser Lt. Gen.Nasir Janjua has submitted a comprehensive report on the Line of Control (LoC) cross-border escalation with Indian troops to Prime Minister Sharif, reported Radio Pakistan.

The Prime Minister is also being briefed regularly on the situation on the LoC by the security establishment.

Sharif, according to Radio Pakistan, expressed satisfaction on the level of preparedness of the Pakistani armed forces to match any provocation by Indian security forces.

In the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the Indian Army claimed that it had conducted surgical strikes on terror launch pads across the Line of Control. This was confirmed by Director General of Military Operations, Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh.

The motive of the operation was to hit out at the terrorists who were planning to infiltrate into Indian territory.

“The operations were basically focused to ensure that these terrorists do not succeed in their design of infiltration and carrying out destruction and endangering the lives of citizens of our country. During these counter terrorist operations significant casualties have been caused to the terrorist and those who are trying to support them. The operation aimed at neutralising the terrorists have since seized. We do not have any plans for further continuation of the operations. However, the Indian armed forces are fully prepared for any contingency that may arrive,” he added.