India shared information about Uri, not evidence: Pakistan
Nafees Zakaria said Pakistan cannot comment prior to independent investigation report of the Uri attack. (Source: PTI) Nafees Zakaria said Pakistan cannot comment prior to independent investigation report of the Uri attack. (Source: PTI)

Pakistan today claimed that India has not shared any evidence about the assault on an army camp in Uri town in Kashmir that left 18 Indian soldiers dead and accused India of blaming others for terror attacks.

Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakaria said Pakistan would wait for any investigation by India into the Uri attack.

“I want to draw a distinction between evidence and information. What they have shared with us is just a piece of paper. In the previous incidents too, there has been exchange of papers. We are waiting for details to come,” he said.

He said Pakistan cannot comment prior to independent investigation report of the Uri attack.

He alleged that India was desperate to divert attention from Kashmir and had demonstrated capability of staging terrorists attack on its soil and blaming it on others.

“We have seen time and again that India would blame another country for terrorist activity and somewhere down the line it would turn out to be the handiwork of its own security agencies. A glaring example of this is the Samjhauta Express terrorist attack in Feb 2007,” he said.

Zakaria said “unprovoked violations on the LoC by the Indian security forces” killed two Pakistani soldiers.

Commenting on the situation in Kashmir, he said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif effectively highlighted in the UN and apprised the world community about it.

He said Pakistan will continue to raise the issue of Kashmir at the UN, OIC and all other international forums as also with the HR Organizations across the world.

The spokesperson said Pakistan remains committed to extending complete diplomatic, political and moral support to the Kashmiris’ movement for self-determination.

He said Pakistan had learnt “India’s unfortunate decision of not attending the Summit” and alleged that India has a track record of impeding the SAARC process.

He said that India’s negative attitude has had a direct bearing on the welfare and betterment in this region, “which is highly regrettable”.

To a question that India was isolating Pakistan, he said Pakistan cannot be isolated by mere statements of the Indian Prime Minister.

“Pakistan enjoys friendly and close relations with the comity of nations and Prime Minister of Pakistan’s engagements on the sidelines of the 71st UNGA session, China’s massive investments, joint exercises with Russia, visit of Iranian Naval ships, signing of mega project agreements with Central Asian States, Russia, China and International Financial Institutions make Indian claim a laughing stock,” he said.

He said Pakistan had not received any formal communication from India on Indus Water treaty, which is binding on both India and Pakistan and has no exit provision.

“According to the sub-provisions (3) and (4) of the Article XII of the IWT, the Treaty cannot be altered or revoked unilaterally,” he said.