7 effective ways to quit smoking for Stoptober Stoptober: 7 effective ways to quit smoking
Stoptober begins October 1, and it's a great way to ditch your nicotine habit with thousands of others across the county.

The 28 day campaign offers tips and advice to help you get going.

If you're desperate to give up but don't have a clue where to start here are some tips to help you along the way.

Exercise

It might sound odd but exercise can help ease nicotine withdrawal when you first quit. If you smoke to alleviate stress, getting active is a great replacement because it's also a great reliever for pent up worries and frustration. Keeping fit will distract you from your thoughts and improve your general mood.

If you're new to exercising try and allocate some time each day to a small activity and build up your stamina. Joining classes at your local gym or community centre can make it more fun and sociable.

Apps

For those of you who use your phone for everything, downloading an app to give you step-by-step support, is the perfect way to success. You can download them from iTunes and Google Play.

The Smoke Free app from iTunes lets you log your cravings and get tips on dealing with them. You can also see how long you have been smoke free and the amount of cigarettes you've not smoked since quitting.

The weQuit app from NiQuitin gives you a personalised goal-based plan. You can earn badges and quit points which you can redeem for rewards such as NiQuitin product coupons.

Patches

These have been on the market for years and are easily accessible - you can buy them from your local pharmacy for around £11. You get seven in each pack, which will last you the entire week. The price tag might sound steep but it's a darn sight cheaper than buying a pack of ciggies.

The invisible patches, help you to overcome the urge to smoke, by giving you some of the nicotine you receive from a cigarette - they eliminate the harmful tar, hydrogen cyanide and carbon monoxide.

Nicorette have three types of patches to choose from depending on how many cigarettes you smoke a day.

E-cigarettes

E-cigarettes allow you to inhale nicotine through a vapour rather than smoke. According to the Stoptober campaign they are around 95% less harmful than smoking.

The fluid inside the stick is called e-liquid and is usually made of nicotine, propylene glycol, glycerine, and flavourings.

It is currently uncertain what health risks are associated with them or what the effects of long-term use may be.

Think of the money

Do you know how much your habit is costing you? Sitting down and doing the calculations could be all the motivation you need.

With the price of cigarettes going up every year it's not only an unhealthy habit but an expensive one too. Workout the cost by multiplying the number of packs you smoke per day by the number of years you have smoked.

Chewing gum

Like patches, gum is another stop smoking aid and works quickly to relieve those annoying cravings you get throughout the day. When you're having withdrawal symptoms reach for a packet of nicotine gum.

They are plenty on the market to choose from including Nicorette , NiQuitin, Nicotinell and Xylitol. Choose from mint, spearmint and fruit sugar ranges.

For more advice on quitting click here .