Conwy's Lone Ranger rides out to shepherd his sheep
Andrew gathers sheep on horseback with his Kelpie dogs at Llanrhychwyn farm near Trefriw

Quad bikes are here to stay on sheep farms but every now and again a good old-fashioned alternative threatens to give them a run for their money.

Andrew Roberts has been gathering his sheep on horseback in the Conwy Valley since breaking in a five-year-old Welsh Cob mare last spring.

And apart from a few bumps and scapes, he is loving the freedom it brings.

“You can see a lot more and you can definitely hear much more when you’re on a horse,” he said.

“The main disadvantage compared to a quad is that, when you dismount in a field, the bike is usually in the same place where you left it!”

Andrew with Del, his Welsh Cob mare, and his Kelpie dogs, which he breeds

'It was either Adele or a Ferrari'

Mr Roberts, 54, is lead ranger on the National Trust’s Ysbyty Estate and is often called out for shepherding work on surrounding hills.

For now, however, he has confined his horseback gathering to his own small farm at Llanrhychwyn above Trefriw , where he keeps 100 Welsh Mountain ewes.

As a youngster he had ridden horses and he yearned to have a go at breaking his own to ride.

“When some men reach the wrong side of 50, they go off an buy a Ferrari. In my case it was a horse,” he said.

In January he acquired Llanfyllin Adele from the Llanfyllin stud. Unbroken and “slightly wild”, the 15hh chestnut mare was nicknamed Del and stabled in the lambing shed.

“That meant she quickly got used to sheep – and me, as I was in there first thing in the morning and last thing at night,” said Mr Roberts.

Andrew reckons being on horseback gives him better control of his dogs

Dogs respond better to commands

The breaking-in process wasn’t without mishap (“you don’t bounce so well at my age”) but he persevered and was rewarded handsomely.

Now he rides out most days, having bought an Australian-style saddle that allows him to straddle feet-bound sheep on Del’s back if they need attention back home.

Mr Roberts, who keeps and breeds Kelpie dogs and crosses, has made a few surprising findings since being paired with Del.

“She has good sheep sense and, in turn, the sheep aren’t spooked by her,” he said.

“I usually have three or four dogs when gathering and the older ones definitely seem to respond better to commands than when I’m using a quad.

"I'm not sure why that should be the case.”

Quad bikes still indispensable

A handful of Welsh sheep farmers still ride out on horses and, with the right terrain, there is still a place for the old four-legged workhorse on the Welsh hills, believes Mr Roberts.

In Snowdonia the mountains are just too steep and too craggy. But where the landscape is more undulating, and the ground more forgiving, there’s no reason why some farmers could not work on horseback, he said.

“Owning a horse is a lot cheaper than a quad bike – mine cost the equivalent of a set of quad wheels," he said.

“Having said that, I only farm on a small scale, and even then I would be reluctant to give up my quad bike altogether.”