Llandudno Pier owners vow checks for all staff after convicted paedophile found working on kiddies' ride
Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

The owners of Llandudno Pier have said all staff will in future be criminal records checked after it emerged a convicted paedophile re-offended after getting a job working on a kiddies’ ride there.

Jamie Campbell had been given four years in jail in 2010 and was registered as a sex offender. But when he was released he managed to get a job as a supervisor on one of the childrens’ funfair rides .

He went on to groom a 13-year-old and is now facing jail again. But the Daily Post has learned that staff working at the popular family attraction do not undergo checks to see whether they have criminal records before being employed there.

The Daily Post has learned that while staff may be asked, they are taken at their word.

Adam Williams, whose company bought the pier last May, said he knew nothing about Jamie Campbell until the Daily Post broke the story of him pleading guilty to the latest child sex offences.

He said from now on criminal checks will be carried out on all staff, including those running concessions on the pier.

Mr Williams said: “My staff and I are horrified to learn about Jamie Campbell, and we feel this news will tarnish us all.

“From now on ... checks will be carried out on everyone working on the pier.”

Simon Mason, general manager of Llandudno Pier, knew of Jamie Campbell, but did not know of his past.

He said: “I’d like to make clear he didn’t work for our group, he worked on a concession which had children’s rides, I don’t think that concession will be returning here.

Jamie Campbell, from Towyn, was jailed in 2010 for child sex offences

“I saw Jamie Campbell around, he was big bloke, and seemed just an everyday kind of person, very smiley and pretty normal.”

Mr Mason admitted as no proper checks were carried out on staff, criminals could well have worked or at present be working on the pier.

“When someone applies for a job, one of the questions on the employment form is asking whether the person has a criminal record, if the answer is no then obviously in the past we’ve gone with it, but this will all now immediately change as a consequence of what has happened,” he added.

Janet Finch-Saunders ' AM for Aberconwy' said it was “vital” CRB checks are made on the Pier’s employees.

She said: “The safety and enjoyment of visitors to the pier are of paramount importance. “It is therefore vital that businesses undertake all necessary background checks on their staff to ensure the maximum safety of children and vulnerable members of the public can be maintained at all times.”

At Llandudno magistrates court yesterday, prosecutor James Neary said police have seized all devices capable of accessing the internet from Jamie Campbell’s home, including his mobile phone, and further investigations are to be carried out.

The 31-year-old of Pen Lan, Towyn, was remanded in custody on Wednesday after pleading guilty to two counts of persuading young girls to put his details on their phones and send sexual messages on Snapchat.

Jamie Campbell was not given a criminal record check before getting work at Llandudno Pier

He sent social media messages to her asking if she could keep a secret and if she wanted to see a “naughty” picture.

He had also tried to get a photograph of another youngster’s backside, and sent her an image of his groin.

Defence solicitor Richard Williams said :”Mr Campbell is realistic about his position.” There was no application for bail.

Campbell was jailed in 2010 after admitting sexual activity with a child when working at an amusement arcade.

He was caught after a teacher at the girl’s school noticed she was upset and the girl revealed the relationship with Campbell.

The judge in the case said Campbell had “taken the opportunity to seduce that young girl and vent your sexual appetite upon her.”

Campbell will be sentenced next month.