Reaction shows Indian Army has forced Pakistan on the defensive, for now
NEW DELHI: Pakistan army described India's surgical strikes across LoC as an 'illusion' created by Indian security forces even as it admitted killing of 2 Pakistani soldiers in cross-LoC firing. Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif himself accused India of unprovoked and naked aggression, not for surgical strikes which Pakistan claims never happened, but for cross-border firing.Many see in Pakistan's reaction a sign that Pakistan is not willing to escalate the situation immediately and will probably wait for the right opportunity to strike back. By denying any foreign troop action on its territory, Pakistan is also seeking to exempt itself from the pressure it might have been subjected to domestically in the aftermath of surgical strikes by India.As former foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal said, Pakistan is following a defensive strategy and India should have no problems playing along with that."They need time to figure out how they can react to this development. There will be a lot of pressure internally to retaliate if they admit to a surgical strike by India on their territory," said Sibal."India should play along and not sound jingoistic about this as escalation doesn't help us," he added.It's significant that India's operation Wednesday came at a challenging moment for Pakistan, more specifically its formidable and popular army chief Raheel Sharif , when it is in the middle of Operation Zarb-e-Azb against Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) and other terrorist organisations in North Waziristan.After the precision strikes by India, Pakistan will know that its threat to lower the nuclear threshold against India in the face of rising conventional asymmetry is no longer enough to deter action by the Indian Army across, even if not very far, from the LoC. To meet the challenge from this new, as Sibal puts it, element of unpredictability which India has introduced, Pakistan will now be forced to think in terms of pulling out some of its resources from the western border and use them along the border with India. That of course is easier said than done as Pakistan remains vulnerable to the threat from groups like TTP.Pakistan has so far used LeT and JeM as strategic assets, its force multipliers, in the low-intensity conflict it has sought to wage with India. Indian Army has just raised the stakes with its action and it is certain to force Rawalpindi to do a rethink. While the Indian Army DGMO has assured his counterpart that India won't carry more strikes across LoC, the fact is that India will have no option but to act in the same way if there's another attack at an army base by any Pakistan based terrorist organization.Like his namesake, Nawaz Sharif too is facing his moment of truth after having stoked the ferment in Kashmir . After deciding to pull out of Saarc summit, and now with military action, PM Narendra Modi has shown he has now fully given up on the personal friendship he was said to have forged with Sharif.Sibal said Pakistan should decide what form of democracy it wants and that should not be India's business. "On Kashmir, Sharif made a crucial mistake by going on a rampage over the issue of Burhan Wani. He should pay for it," said Sibal.