Wales may be swallowed up in single NVZ
Plans have been put forward to increase the amount of farmland in Wales that is covered Nitrate Vulnerable Zone (NVZ) regulations.

The Welsh Government has set out two options, one of which is to designate the whole of Wales as an NVZ.

The other is a targeted approach that would to increase the area of land covered by local NVZs more than three-fold.

In a statement today, Lesley Griffiths, cabinet secretary for environment and rural affairs, said the country was required by the EU to reduce the agricultural pollution of streams and rivers.

She said the issue of nitrate pollution will still need to be tackled whatever the outcome of Brexit negotiations.

“Wales prides itself on producing high quality produce in a country with a reputation of a healthy environment,” said the minister.

“Much of Wales’ trade in agricultural produce is based upon this fundamental assumption and there is great risk to the industry if this reputation is damaged.

“This competitive advantage, which may become increasingly important in the future, will not be easily regained if lost.”

Whole Wales NVZ would prevent boundary 'tensions'

A Welsh Government consultation maintains that a whole Wales NVZ designation would enable an integrated approach to a number of environment issues such as air quality and greenhouse gas emissions.

It would also “help to avoid potential tensions” between landowners at NVZ boundaries: local NVZs can lead to a perception of inequality between neighbouring farms.

A whole Wales approach would also avoid price disparities between land values and farm production costs.

However costs are likely to be higher and there is a risk that landowners may “resort to conscious non-compliance” due to the levels of investment required.

Targeted approach would conform to 'polluter pays' principle

Currently NVZs cover some 2.4% of the land in Wales and under the targeted approach, this would rise to around 8%.

Farmland in traditional dairying areas are likely to be targeted as these are where nitrates pollution is more commonplace.

This would tally with the “polluter pays” principle and would mean that costs are not imposed on farmers whose land does not drain to nitrate-polluted waters.

However the consultation highlights how the four-yearly cycle of reviewing water quality creates uncertainty for landowners, making it difficult to make long-term investment decisions.

Whichever option is chosen, the new designations would be implemented next year.

Mrs Griffiths added: “Measures to tackle agricultural pollution will continue to be essential to improve water quality in Wales in both the lead up to and following our departure from the EU.”