Tributes to Bangor University student who died in Aberglaslyn kayak tragedy
Tom Lloyd, 24, who died after getting into difficulty kayaking in Aberglaslyn

Tributes have been paid to a Bangor University student who died in a kayaking tragedy at Aberglaslyn.

Tom Lloyd, 24, was killed on Tuesday evening (September 27) after getting into difficulty while kayaking on the Glaslyn river.

He was a "very well-liked student" who had spent the summer in Norway working as a kayak instructor.

Mr Lloyd, from Whittington, near Lichfield in Staffordshire, was a third-year environmental management student at Bangor University.

His devastated friends described him as the "life and soul of the party" and said he will "forever be in their hearts".

They also revealed how just last week Mr Lloyd had saved a woman's life by giving her CPR when she had a heart attack.

They said: "Tom Lloyd was the life and soul of the party, back home in Staffordshire he had a small group of very close friends and when he was home they all lived hand in hand.

"Every one of us have been swapping stories about him today and we all want to say we all miss and love you and will forever be in our hearts, Gone but never forgotten.

"Not only was he into kayaking but he loved all outdoor activities and played a big role in scout activities for Beaudesert.

"He also loved the environment and even helped causes to save pieces of landscape affected by human development such as dams affecting wild life."

Emergency services searching for Tom Lloyd

Video loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video

In a statement Bangor University said: “Staff and students at Bangor University are saddened to hear of the death of Tom Lloyd.

"Tom was a very well-liked student who was entering the third year of a degree in Environmental Management.

“An experienced outdoor pursuits enthusiast, he had just spent the summer in Norway working as a kayak instructor, as well as carrying out field research as part of his studies.

“He will be sadly missed by all his friends at Bangor, and our thoughts are with them and his family.”

Mr Lloyd died while kayaking on the Glaslyn river near Beddgelert and getting into difficulty.

Despite a massive search operation the 24-year-old's body was discovered by emergency services late on Tuesday evening.

It was recovered on Wednesday morning and taken to Ysbyty Gwynedd , Bangor where a post-mortem examination took place.

In a statement North Wales Police said: "The family are being supported by a North Wales Police family liaison officer and our thoughts are with Mr Lloyd’s family at this time."

Aberglaslyn Mountain Rescue Team were involved in the search and subsequent recovery of the body.

The Team's Secretary, Gethin Edwards said: “This was a particularly complex operation which required a high level of skill and expertise from those agencies present under the most tragic of circumstances.

“I would like to thank our partner agencies for their support during this difficult operation. Our sympathies go out to the family and friends of the person involved.”