The Urdu Press: After Uri
Soldiers guard outside the army base which was attacked suspected militants in Uri, Jammu and Kashmir. PTI photo Soldiers guard outside the army base which was attacked suspected militants in Uri, Jammu and Kashmir. PTI photo

Compiled by Seema Chishti

Roznama Khabrein, in its editorial (September 26) writes: “There is naturally a wave of grief and anger in the entire country following the terrorist attack on Uri army camp, something that can not be ignored. The prime minister’s speech at a rally at Kozhikode in Kerala on September 24 may have disappointed the fanatics and those favouring a war. They might have expected that the PM would make an announcement about the date and time of an attack (on Pakistan) thus providing solace to national sentiments. But he tried to put a mirror before Pakistan and made an appeal to Pakistani people to wage a war against poverty, starvation and unemployment and see who wins this war. He reminded the neighbouring country that it could not take care of its eastern wing that became Bangladesh, it cannot manage Gilgit-Baltistan, Balochistan and PoK and now, it is singing songs about Kashmir. These facts can not be ignored by Pakistan and it cannot gain world’s sympathy by saying Pakistan itself is a victim of terrorism. Because that country itself had sown the needs of terrorism to serve the interests of certain world powers… It is to be said that the PM’s speech was balanced and cogent. Like a real politician he tried to disperse the cloud of war instead of spreading it.”

Sahafat, in its editorial on the same day, writes: “The most significant aspect of the PM’s Kozhikode speech is the resolve to launch a massive campaign against the erring country to isolate it completely among the comity of nations. PM has assured that sacrifices of the 18 Indian soldiers killed at Uri will not be wasted. There can be many meanings to this statement.”

Rashtriya Sahara, in a commentary on September 27, outlines the difficulties and the time-consuming procedure in reducing the supply of water to Pakistan even while using its entitlements under the Indus Waters Treaty of 1960, the Chinese factor in the context of rivers flowing from China into India, construction of new dams, involvement of the World Bank that brokered the treaty, and the fear of adverse world opinion if any drastic steps are taken.”

Modi on Muslims

The prime minister’s remarks at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya’s birth centenary celebrations in Kozhikode on September 25 that Muslims are neither a commodity in the vote market, nor an object of hatred and should be considered as “our own”, too have been subject of much discussion.

Inquilab, in its editorial on September 26, writes: “Expression of resolve and assurance of any solid action prompted by sympathy or responsibilities of governance need some concrete action. Otherwise, such pronouncements simply remain a rubble of words. Not long ago, the PM had given a very emotional statement about Dalits (“shoot me if you have to, don’t shoot my Dalit brothers”). The value of this statement would have been immensely enhanced if an environment had been created by some solid action so that attacks on Dalits would have stopped.

But everyone knows that nothing of this sort happened… The slogan, sab ka saath, sab ka vikas, was undoubtedly meant to provide assurance, satisfaction and trust. But after the situation and incidents during the last two-and-half years, this slogan has become worthless and infamous and this reality has not been hidden from anyone. In such a situation, can an environment of trust be created by any statement of assurance? This, particularly at a time when the bugle has to be sounded for an extremely important election, from a political point of view, in Uttar Pradesh, and on an occasion when the PM was in a state that is important in view of its large Muslim population?”

UP’s Muslim vote

The pre-electoral scene in UP is the subject of much discussion rather early in the day. Jamaat-e-Islami’s Daawat, in its front page comment (September 22), writes: “The current electoral politics underway in UP clearly shows that both the Congress and the BJP are playing the Hindu and Brahmin cards. The only difference is that the Hindu card of the Congress is somewhat soft with a clever eye on the Muslim vote that can improve its situation to some extent if it can be secured by it. The BJP’s Hindu card, on the other hand, is hard. SP too, currently involved in family feuds, would try to get Muslim vote along with the backward class vote, as in the past. The leader of the BSP, Mayawati, is trying to forge a unity between Dalits and Muslims as evident by her actions by way of holding joint rallies and issuing statements against the activities of gau rakshaks. The games of SP and BSP can be spoiled only by two claimants of Muslim votes — the Peace Party that already has a presence in the state and the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslemeen that has recently jumped into the fray. If the Muslim groups do not align with any big party, the Muslim vote can get divided to a very large extent, as has been the tradition in the state. Everything depends on the Muslim vote. If there is no alliance on the Bihar pattern and Muslims vote without introspection, the party they vote for can be defeated and the one for which they do not vote for can win.”