Task force to be set up to check malnutrition in Maharashtra: Devendra Fadnavis
As many as 60 children died in Mokhada Taluka of Thane district last year due to malnutrition. Sitting Member of Parliament Baliram Jadhav with limited development work in his constituency has not been able to bring down the infant mortality rate herecaption. EXPRESS PHOTO BY DEEPAK JOSHI As many as 60 children died in Mokhada Taluka of Thane district last year due to malnutrition. Sitting Member of Parliament Baliram Jadhav with limited development work in his constituency has not been able to bring down the infant mortality rate herecaption. EXPRESS PHOTO BY DEEPAK JOSHI

Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said a state-level task force would be set up to curb malnutrition in the state.

The government is sensitive on the issue, and hence, a state-level task force committee would be set up under the chairmanship of the state health minister, he said at a press conference after chairing the Konkan division review meeting here.

Watch What Else Is Making News:

“In order to eradicate the problem of malnutrition, there is a need for co-ordination among different departments. Taking this into account, the task force committee is being set up. It will comprise minister for medical education, women and child welfare, tribal development and secretaries of these departments,” he said.

This committee will coordinate with all departments and plan activities. Deaths, allegedly due to malnourishment reported from some districts, especially Palghar, took centre stage last week after National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued a notice to the state government, giving it four weeks time to submit a report on deaths of children in Palghar.

The NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of media reports which stated that 600 children have died allegedly due to malnutrition in Palghar this year.

“Nutritional food will be given through a centralised kitchen and arrangements would be made in that directions. A detailed plan would be drafted to extend the coverage of this kitchen,” Fadnavis said.

He cited the example of Gram Vikas Kendra, Bal Upchar Kendra, Poshan Punarvasan Kendras in Palghar district and said that time-bound programmes are being planned to curb child deaths.

Medical examination of children in the age group of 0-6 years is being conducted and as per need they are further treated or lodged at the respective centres, the Chief Minister said.

Meanwhile, a group of people from Palghar staged protest outside the meeting venue here. Over 50 protesters under the banner of Shramajeevi Sanghatana, raised slogans against the government, accusing it of failing to check rampant malnourishment in the region.

As many as 55 people, including women, were arrested under relevant sections of Bombay Police Act, SHO of Thane Nagar Police Station said.