The 'adored' horse killed in Sychnant Pass crash
Gillian Singleton on Digby the black and white horse that was killed on Sychnant pass, with Gwenda Owen

This is the much-loved horse which sadly died after being hit by a car on Sychnant Pass last night.

Gillian Singleton suffered only minor injuries after the animal called Digby landed on her after being struck on the road, near Conwy .

The road was blocked for 30 minutes as heavy machinery was used to remove the dead horse following the tragedy shortly before 6pm.

Police are now investigating after the driver left before officers arrived, and a spokeswoman said he has since been traced.

Mrs Singleton’s niece Keelie Owen said: “My aunt and my mum Gwenda, who are two experienced horse riders, were hacking on the road towards Dwygyfylchi when a man driving a car hit the back end of one of the horses.

“My aunt and 12-year-old Digby fell to the floor. The horse landed on my aunt and by some miracle she only had minor injuries, although she has gone to hospital today as she’s so bruised.

“Digby died at the scene from leg and internal injuries. My aunt hadn’t realised how injured he was as he had tried to run off home, but he only got a few metres as he had a broken leg. He died 10 minutes later – my aunt adored him.”

Keelie said her aunt and mum were so distressed they did not take the details of witnesses. “I’d like to appeal for any witnesses as the driver left before a PCSO came to deal with the matter,” she added.

“They have ridden those roads for many years. They were wearing all the correct equipment and still a car manages to kill a horse and almost its rider.”

Keelie added: “My mother is also traumatised as 15 years before a similar thing had happened to her and her horse Lavender, when a car plunged into the horse’s chest.

“But luckily on that occasion Lavender made a full recovery and is still alive all these years on.”

A spokeswoman for North Wales Police said: “The driver has been traced and investigations are on going.”