High alert sounded in Rajasthan after surgical strikes by Army
Vigilance and alert has been intensified on Rajasthan border. (File) Vigilance and alert has been intensified on Rajasthan border. (File)

High alert was sounded in Rajasthan on Friday, which shares border with Pakistan, following surgical strike carried out by the Army on terror launching pads across the LoC to foil plans of terrorists to target some Indian towns.

Security and intelligence agencies are vigilant and high alert has been sounded with senior police officers issuing necessary directions.

Four districts of the state — Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer and Sriganganagar — shares over 1,000 kilometre long border with Pakistan. The Range IGs, district collectors and SPs have been asked to remain alert and take stock of the situation, official sources said.

Watch What Else Is Making News:

“The Armed forces is in a high state of alertness and preparedness to meet any eventuality,” defence sources said.

BSF spokesperson Ravi Gandhi said that vigilance and patrolling in the border areas has been intensified and the force is alert.

“The force was already alert and the vigilance has been further enhanced,” he said.

Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria, Chief Secretary and Home Secretary held a video conferencing with the officers and issued directions while reviewing the situation.

Seven terror launch pads across the Line of Control(LoC) were targeted by the Army on the intervening night of September 28 and 29 in a nearly five-hour-long operation during which heliborne and ground forces were deployed.

“The situation was reviewed and officials have been given necessary direction. However, no village has been evacuated in the border areas,” Chief Secretary O P Meena told PTI.

Meanwhile, Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and spiritual head of the Ajmer dargah have appreciated the action of surgical strike.

“The Indian Army has given a fitting reply to Pakistan and salute to them for this. All the citizens are feeling proud,” Raje said in a statement.

Ajmer Dargah Deewan Zainul Abedin Ali Khan congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian Army for the action.

“This is a welcoming move and has boosted the morale of the Army and the citizens. This is a lesson to the terrorist and enemies of the country,” Khan said.

However, amid heightened tension between the two nations, Mayo College of Ajmer has called off a scheduled event which was to be participated by a Pakistani delegation under an exchange programme.

The exchange programme involving 38 students and teachers from Pakistan was scheduled to be held at Mayo College between October 2 to 5.

“In view of the current scenario and respecting public sentiments, the Mayo college management committee has decided to call off the event under sports and cultural exchange programme,” Achal Deep Dubey, senior English teacher of the college said.

Meanwhile, BJP state president Ashok Parnami said: “India will not tolerate terrorism and the Army action is a loud and clear message to all breeding ground of the terrorism.”

Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sachin Pilot said Pakistan will learn a lesson by the surgical strike.