Oldest record for newest league
Uruguay’s Diego Forlan, 37, is among the biggest names in this year’s ISL, which kicks off on Saturday. (Source: File) Uruguay’s Diego Forlan, 37, is among the biggest names in this year’s ISL, which kicks off on Saturday. (Source: File)

The Indian Super League’s (ISL) star quotient has gone up this season. So has the average age.

The three biggest stars in the cash-rich tournament, which kicks off on October 1, are all on the wrong side of thirty. Prolific French midfielder Florent Malouda, signed by Delhi Dynamos, is 36. Mumbai City’s marquee player Diego Forlan, the Golden Ball winner of 2010 World Cup, is 37. And World Cup winning Brazilian defender Lucio, who’ll once again wear FC Goa colours, is aged 38.

They aren’t the only fading stars hanging on for that one final payday. Data compiled by FIFA’s Transfer Matching System (TMS) for the June 1 to August 31 window shows that the average age of ISL imports this season is the highest in the world. So far 59 new players that have been signed up by the eight ISL clubs and their average age is 27.

This isn’t happening for the first time. Last year, Indian clubs (ISL and I-League combined) were involved in 118 international transfers during the summer and winter windows. The average age of players signed was 28 years and 10 months, second only to Iran. The year before that – during the inaugural edition of the ISL – Indian clubs brought 131 players, which was the second highest in Asia.

The average age of players back then was 29 years and one month, the oldest. Incidentally, the average age of players imported by Indian clubs was around 25 till 2013.

Till not so long ago, USA’s Major League Soccer (MLS), the Australian League and a few others leagues in Asia – notably the Gulf – were the favourite destinations for footballers who were past their prime. The latest FIFA data fosters the perception held by many that India is the new retirement home for the ageing footballers.

Wenger’s advise

In 2014, Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was among the first to foresee this. Days after five former Gunners – Robert Pires, Freddie Ljungberg, Nicolas Anelka, Mikel Silvestre and Andre Santos – joined the ISL, Wenger told the club’s website that the ‘Indian league was a good option’ for players who are too old to sneak into one of the top European leagues. “You have two steps. Being completely at the top finishes when you are 34 at the latest. After that, you have different leagues like the MLS and the Indian Super League,” he had said.

Forlan, who won the Uruguayan league with Penarol last season, says short duration of the ISL makes it an attractive option. “At the moment, the way they (organisers) are conducting the league – nice stadia, the way they show it on TV – it’s more or less similar to the Premier League. There is a difference of course,” the former Manchester United and Atletico Madrid striker says. “The league is not that long. It’s really short and it’s a different type of event. That’s why it’s attractive for many players. Also, the offers you have are really good as well.”

The tempting offer of making millions in three months got Allesandro del Piero to Delhi in 2014. Last year, Roberto Carlos came out of retirement at the age of 42 to play for Delhi Dynamos. He was accompanied by Helder Postiga, who signed for Atletico Kolkata, while Adrian Mutu returned from obscurity and turned up for Pune City. And these were some of the marquee names.

Several other journeymen players in their 30s, who were not suitable any more for a full-season contract in Europe, also landed in India to revive their careers.

Mumbai City’s CEO Indranil Das Blah, though, feels it is unfair to call ISL a retirement home. He says it’s a win-win situation for both, the players as well as the league.

“The league is still at a nascent stage. You need good international players from whom our players can learn. Since we can’t afford top tier players, the next best option is to get players who have done their hard miles, proven themselves at the world level,” Blah says. “They add a lot of value and pass on important lessons to the Indian players. Top down and bottom up, ISL is doing what is best in the current situation.”

Blah adds the quality of players in the ISL is increasing while the clubs have become wiser and are targetting younger players. But they are still not young enough, as per the TMS records.

The ‘supers’ in the Indian Super League

Atletico Kolkata

Helder Postiga (Por)

The 34-year-old showed his class in the first match but his time in India was cut short due to an injury.

Chennaiyin FC

John Arne Riise (Nor)

Riise, 36, played for Delhi last year and was instrumental in making them one of the strongest units defensively.

Delhi Dynamos

Florent Malouda (Fra)

Returns as their marquee player – replacing Roberto Carlos. The 36-year-old Frenchman provided Delhi the much-needed thrust in the midfield.

FC Goa

Lucio (Bra)

He may be 38, but he proved his class last year with some stellar performances in Goa’s runners-up finish. The World Cup winner is Zico’s main man in the team and it’s unlikely to change this year as well.

Kerala Blasters

Aaron Hughes (NIR)

He might be among the most low-profile marquee players, but the 36-year-old defender doesn’t lack in experience. Has played nearly 200 matches each for Fulham & Newcastle.

Mumbai City

Diego Forlan (Uru)

Replaces Nicolas Anelka as the marquee player and expectations will be high. Will lead the forward line, with Sunil Chhetri as his deputy.

NorthEast United

Didier Zokora (Ivr)

Hasn’t played professional football after the ISL last year, when he played for Pune. Question marks over the 35-year-old’s form as well as fitness.

Pune City

To be announced

Their marquee player Eidur Gudjohnsen was ruled out due to an injury. Replacement not named yet.