Man cleared of growing cannabis at Wrexham house was in 'wrong place at wrong time'
A man found in a house packed with cannabis plants has been cleared of being involved in the cultivation of illegal drugs.

Vytautas Jovaisa was one of three Lithuanian nationals arrested in the house at Rodens Close, Rossett , near Wrexham after police raided the property last January.

He told a jury at Caernarfon Crown Court he had been in Britain on holiday last January and had agreed to travel from London to Wrexham to see Tomas Crupkevicius at the request of his father.

The 36-year-old told the jury he had arrived at the property about 25 minutes before the police arrived.

When they burst in, Jovaisa said he was in one of the bedrooms that had been converted into a sophisticated cannabis farm.

Asked by his barrister Ioana Nedelcu if he was suspicious when he entered the house he said there was a strong smell of cannabis and believed someone may have been smoking.

The bathroom, he added, was a mess with cannisters strewn across the floor and pipes from the ceiling leading to a large container.

He said he knew Crupkevicius from his home city of Kaunas where they had played football at a social club.

When Crupkevicius’ father learned Jovaisa was going to the UK he asked him to visit his son because he was worried.

He told Ms Nedelcu he was in the “wrong place at the wrong time” when the police arrived.

Quizzed by prosecutor Ffion Tomos he agreed he had not told the police of this request at interview.

The jury heard he had answered “no comment” to most of the officers questions.

He said Crupkevicius was a young man and he did not want to get him into trouble.

“I thought he would tell the police what had happened and I would be released soon,” he said.

The jury was told Tomas Crupkevicius, 21, had admitted being involved in the cultivation of cannabis plants and was due at Caernarfon Crown Court for sentence but failed to turn up.

Judge Niclas Parry issued a warrant for his arrest.

A woman, Karolina Micheleviciute, believed to be Crupkevicius’ girlfriend and who was also arrested in January has also failed to appear in court.