India strikes beyond LOC: PM has shown the world we can go beyond words, says CM Devendra Fadnavis
Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis. (File Photo) Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis. (File Photo)

Praising the surgical strike carried out by the Army across the LoC, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis Thursday said he felt proud to be an Indian and the world had seen the strength of India.

Congratulating the Armed Forces on a successful operation, he said the country should also act against “bad influences”.

Speaking at Mazagaon Docks at the millennium anniversary of the coronation of Emperor Rajendra Chola, who maintained a powerful Navy, Fadnavis said: “Aaj humari sena aur pradhan mantri ne desh aur duniya ko bata diya ki sava sau crore ka yeh Bharat desh ahinsa ka toh pujari hai lekin kamzor nahi hai (Today our Army and the Prime Minister have shown the nation and the world that India, a country with a 125-crore population, is a believer of non-violence, but isn’t weak).”

Watch What Else is Making news



“As an Indian, I feel extremely proud of the way our Army got into Pakistan and decimated the terrorist camps,” Fadnavis said.

Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Fadnavis said the PM has proved to the world that India can go beyond words. “We will not stop at words. If necessary, we can squash bad influences with our might. I believe that the world has learnt of our strength and today should be a day of pride for all of us,” he said.

At the event, Governor of Maharashtra Dr Ch Vidya Sagar Rao and Fadnavis also presented a portrait of emperor Rajendra Chola I to the chairman of the millennium celebration committee, Tarun Vijay, and Managing Director of the Mazagaon Docks Ship Builder Rear Admiral (retd) Rahul Kumar Shrawat.

Rajendra Chola I ascended to the throne a millennium ago, in 1014 CE. Exactly 35 years ago, the UN passed a resolution declaring the Indian Ocean a peace-zone, the waters of which Chola had a great command over.

“It was exactly 1,000 years ago that India’s engagement with South-East Asia was strengthened by Chola and his enthronement. He built strong ships, crossed the seas using ancient maritime knowledge and united trading,” said Union Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar in a statement.

Raj Thackeray thanks Army

MNS Chief Raj Thackeray spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and thanked him and the Indian Army for carrying out the surgical strike across the LoC.

“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian jawans have undertaken the shraddh (last rites) of Pakistan during pitru paksh (a period in the Hindu calendar). I congratulate the PM, the defense minister and our jawans,” Thackeray said.