Delhi confidential: Word Play
SHORTLY AFTER chairing an all-party meeting during which political leaders were briefed about the surgical strikes conducted by the Indian Army on terrorist launch pads in PoK, Home Minister Rajnath Singh once again tweeted about “surgical precision” — this time in the context of a hockey match between India and Pakistan. In a tongue-in-cheek tweet, Singh said, “India’s U-18 hockey team registers victory in Asia Cup semi-final with surgical precision. Congratulations to the boys on making India proud.”

On Hold

SEVERAL GOVERNMENT engagements were cancelled or rescheduled in view of the “surgical strikes” carried out by the Indian Army. A crucial meeting to review the Most Favoured Nation status to Pakistan, which was to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday morning, was postponed. The rural development ministry, which had planned a media tour to Porbandar, sent out a message to journalists saying, “due to Indo-Pak situation, the media tour to Porbandar stands cancelled, will plan next very soon”. On Wednesday night, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikkar and NSA Ajit Doval did not turn up for a dinner with Coast Guard commanders at the Coast Guard Headquarters.

Action, Reaction

EVER SINCE the Uri attack, the Congress has been targeting the Centre. But on Thursday, after the announcement of the “surgical strikes”, the party told its spokespersons not to issue any immediate reactions. After Congress chief Sonia Gandhi met some top leaders, the party issued a statement backing the government action and congratulating the Army. With the name of a senior BJP leader cropping up in the suicide of B K Bansal, former Ministry of Corporate Affairs director general, the Congress was planning to rake up the issue on Thursday. But the plan was aborted after the government’s announcement.

New Judges

RELATIONS BETWEEN the government and the judiciary seem to be showing signs of a thaw. After clearing a handful of appointments and three transfers of high court judges, the government on Thursday issued warrants of appointment of 15 judges to the Madras High Court and five additional judges to the Kerala High Court. More appointments are going to be cleared in the next few days.