Unmukt Chand named Delhi skipper for first two Ranji Trophy matches
Delhi team will be led by Unmukt Chand, as Virat Kohli and Gautam Gambhir are unavailable due to national duties. FILE Delhi team will be led by Unmukt Chand, as Virat Kohli and Gautam Gambhir are unavailable due to national duties. FILE

The Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) has appointed Unmukt Chand as skipper of the 15-member squad for the first two Ranji Trophy games against Assam, to be played in Baroda, and Maharashtra, to be played in Mumbai. Virat Kohli and Gautam Gambhir, both on national duty, were named captain and vice-captain respectively for the entire season.

Delhi’s squad features tried and tested faces and the only notable addition is of opening batsman Mohit Sharma, who made his First Class debut for the state in 2012 but played only seven games since then. Young Rishabh Pant will do the duties behind the stumps while the spin-load will be shared by left-arm spinners Manan Sharma, Varun Sood – making a return to the squad after missing last season due to injury – and off-spinner Pulkit Narang.

There is no fresh face in the seam department too and Sarang Rawat, who impressed many with his bursts in the nets last season, was ignored. He failed to pick a wicket in the two matches he played last season. Pawan Suyal, Navdeep Saini, Vikas Tokar, Pradeep Sangwan and Parvinder Awana are the five seamers in the Unmukt-led squad.

Delhi’s middle-order was very inexperienced last season with exits of Mithun Manhas, Virender Sehwag and Rajat Bhatia but the likes of Nitish Rana and Dhruv Shorey made most of the opportunity with good outings for the state. Rana, on the back of the impressive Ranji season and even better T20 outing, was also picked for the Duleep Trophy.

The selection panel comprising of Atul Wassan, Nikhil Chopra and Robin Singh jr. has not experimented much for the first two games and picked a safe squad. There was a lot of buzz around Rajesh Sharma and Himmat Singh, both who have performed consistently in the junior age groups, but were not considered for the middle-order.

The team leaves for Baroda on October 3rd, and will continue to practice with coach Bhaskar Pillai and assistant coach Amit Bhandari until October 2.

The squad: Unmukt Chand (captain), Vaibhav Rawal, Milind Kumar, Nitish Rana, Manan Sharma, Dhruv Shorey, Rishabh Pant (wicketkeeper), Mohit Sharma, Pulkit Narang, Varun Sood, Parwinder Awana, Navdeep Saini, Vikas Tokas, Pradeep Sangwan, Pawan Suyal.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd