Enter now for the Daily Post Business Awards as deadline looms
Is your business a high flying mid-size firm or community champion?

The Daily Post Business Awards 2016 aim to find the area’s most innovative companies and talented people.

Prizes will be awarded to the firms and business people who have excelled over the last 12 months and are helping drive the economy forward.

There are 10 categories to enter with a showcase awards ceremony in December at Bangor University, who are the headline sponsor of the awards and also support the Business Person of the Year category.

This week we focus on the Finance Wales Business of the Year (up to 50 employees) and Horizon Nuclear Power Community Award.

Finance Wales Business of the Year (up to 50 employees)

Does your business employ between 11-50 people? If you can show outstanding performance and consistently high business achievement and success, this is the category for you.

Horizon Nuclear Power Community Award

Have you or your organisation been committed, proactive or contributed to helping benefit a local community initiative or scheme? You will also need to show how good business management has helped achieve this goal.

The 10 awards are open to ANY type of business based within North Wales. It’s free to enter and there are number of ways to enter your business.

For an entry form and information visit www.dailypostbusinessawards.co.uk , call: 01492 574 472 or email events@dailypost.co.uk. The deadline for entries is midnight on Friday September 30 and the awards take place on December 1 at Bangor University.

A word from our sponsors:

Finance Wales

Finance Wales logo

Finance Wales is a leading investor in small and medium-sized business (SMEs) with a proven track record of providing them with loans and equity investments to help them grow.

We’re proud to sponsor the Finance Wales Business of the Year award 2016 which celebrates the innovation and success of north Wales’ fastest growing SMEs. Many are achieving outstanding performance, increasing profitability and market share, or developing new products and services.

Having already backed over 3,600 Welsh SMEs, we’re committed to helping even more of them grow. Our newest fund – the £136m Wales Business Fund – launches this September. Backed by the Welsh Government and European Regional Development Fund, the fund can make debt and equity investments in SMEs between £50,000 and £2m.

We’ll be hosting a business breakfast on 28 September in St Asaph to talk about the Wales Business Fund. To register your attendance visit financewales.co.uk/walesbusinessfund.

Horizon Nuclear Power

Horizon Nuclear Power logo

Horizon Nuclear Power is delighted to be sponsoring the Daily Post Business Community Award. We are an energy company developing a new generation of nuclear power stations. A wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd., we plan to provide at least 5,400MW of new power station capacity to the UK.

Our Wylfa Newydd Project on Anglesey will be a focal point for the local economy, opening up a world of opportunities for local businesses.

We want to ensure that Wylfa Newydd creates a positive and lasting legacy for current and future generations and already engage extensively with the community around our site. Being an active part of the community and delivering long term benefits in the areas where we operate is really important to us, so we’re proud to support this category.

horizonnuclearpower.com