D G Vanzara, first Muslim DGP to launch NGO to help terror victims
D G Vanzara D G Vanzara

Former IPS officer D G Vanzara, a key accused in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh and the Ishrat Jahan encounter cases, has formed an NGO, along with two other retired IPS officers, including Gujarat’s first Muslim DGP S S Khandwawala.

The NGO — Justice for Victims of Terrorism — is set to be launched on October 9 in Ahmedabad at a grand function at Tagore Hall in Paldi area. At the inaugural event, Rajinder Kumar, a co-accused in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case and former special director of Intelligence Bureau, is likely to be present as a “special guest”. The event will be presided over by former chief justice of J&K and Delhi High Courts Justice (retd) B C Patel, while Padma Shri awardee and former IPS officer Prakash Singh will be the chief guest.

Retired Major General G D Bakshi will be the guest of honour while retired Justice B J Shethna will be the special guest.

The NGO has Khandwawala as its chairperson, retired DGP of Maharashtra K P Raghuvanshi as its vice-chairperson, Vanzara as general secretary and lawyer V D Gajjar as secretary.

Gajjar has been representing Vanzara in the alleged fake encounter cases. Khandwawala couldn’t be reached for comment. “The NGO is a result of a well-thought out plan. Through this platform, we will be working systematically to take care of victims of terrorism in the country. We have already registered the trust which we will officially launch on October 9,” Vanzara told The Indian Express.

Vanzara, currently on bail in the two encounter cases, said that the rationale behind forming the NGO is to help the victims of terrorism in fight for justice. The IPS officer said he was also “a victim of terrorism”, like many officers who fought against terrorists, but there is not a single NGO or a platform from where voices for them and their rights can be raised.

Since his return from Mumbai, after his bail condition was modified earlier this year, Vanzara has been addressing public gathering across the state. On Wednesday, Vanzara addressed a gathering in Godhra town where he called for the closure of madrasas as “education imparted in madrasas” had influenced separatists in J&K.

“They all are retired officers who got lots of love from the society and it is their duty to give back to the society,” said Gajjar.