India vs New Zealand: Open and shut case for Shikhar Dhawan
Shikhar Dhawan is likely to return to the opening slot in place of KL Rahul, who will miss the second Test due to a hamstring injury. PTI Shikhar Dhawan is likely to return to the opening slot in place of KL Rahul, who will miss the second Test due to a hamstring injury. PTI

Around 9 on Thursday morning, the Indian team started their pre-match training drills around a green track at Eden Gardens. The colour palette was more of Eden Park in Auckland though, and the Kiwis, checking in at early afternoon, must have been pleasantly surprised at the unexpected favour. The colour fade, however, coincided with the arrival of Sourav Ganguly, the CAB president, at 2 pm.

The mowers whirred into action, the grass was spat out, and the lushness dissipated though the greenish tinge didn’t totally disappear. Conditions – moisture and the lack of proper firmness – had prevented a dustbowl and it’s expected to initially offer lateral movement. More than anyone else in the Indian team, Shikhar Dhawan has his task cut out.

Anil Kumble, who incidentally had a long chat with Sourav Ganguly on Wednesday evening ostensibly about the nature of the pitch, has already said that strike-rates in Test cricket is only relevant for bowlers. But over the last three years, Dhawan has been allowed a longer rope in the team because of his stroke-making prowess. A strike rate of 60.25 confirms his ability to take the attack to the opposition right from the start. That potential to score runs quickly has allowed him to shroud his inconsistency.

Twenty-four sub-30 scores (nine below 10) in 37 innings attest that inconsistency and the left-hander has suffered for that. The recently concluded West Indies tour was a case in point. Dhawan had started the series well with a 147-ball 84 in the first Test in Antigua but by the time the bandwagon had rolled to Trinidad, he was out of the playing XI. It was a different matter that the final Test at Port of Spain was washed out because of a soggy Queen’s Park Oval outfield.

After a bright beginning, Dhawan could only manage 54 runs in his next three innings. And the nature of his dismissals – a loose drive against off-spinner Roston Chase in Jamaica and a nick to a harmless leg stump inswinger from Shannon Gabriel at Gros Islet – showed lack of composure. Before that, the looseness outside off stump has nailed him a few times.

It isn’t that he hasn’t worked hard for course corrections but a decisive turnaround hasn’t come yet. He has developed his leg-side play, he had even started to play more patiently, but he hasn’t been able to effect the jailbreak. For his outside-off play, he has tried various drills in plenty of practice sessions in the past – from keeping a fourth stump a foot away on the off side to help check batting too far away from the off stump to mining Sanjay Bangar, the batting coach, for help with his trigger movements but it hasn’t quite clicked in yet.

To India’s delight, KL Rahul showed plenty of it after he replaced an injured Murali Vijay in the second Test. The young man finished the series with 236 runs at 78.66 including a ton, edging out Dhawan as Vijay’s opening partner in the process. The Vijay-Rahul combination was retained for the first Test against New Zealand, upholding Dhawan’s fall in the pecking order.

And now the 30-year-old appears to be under more pressure following Gautam Gambhir’s inclusion as the injured Rahul’s replacement. True, Gambhir has been brought in as a cover and is very unlikely to play in Kolkata. But his presence takes Dhawan out of his comfort zone. A failure at Eden Gardens and the team management might be tempted to give a game to the veteran in the final Test. And as Rahul will return for the five-Test home series against England – India’s next assignment in the longest format – axe might fall on ‘Jatt ji’, the moniker used by the likes of Gambhir. Little wonder, then, that he looked intense at the nets.

India had an optional practice session yesterday but Dhawan worked hard. He took tennis ball throwdowns, before turning his attention to leave the ball outside the off stump. One complaint against Dhawan is that he tends to get a bit carried away. Here’s a break-up of his dismissals in Tests: bowled 4, caught 19, caught and bowled 7 and lbw 6. You expect a Test opener to be tighter. Today, at the nets, Dhawan looked very keen to play as straight as possible.

This Eden pitch will demand patience and adherence to the basics. The new ball is expected to do a bit, both in the air and off the wicket. And Dhawan’s record in such conditions doesn’t inspire much confidence. His showing in England is mediocre – three matches, 122 runs at 20.33. It’s almost identical Down Under – three matches, 167 runs at 27.83. In South Africa, he has only 76 runs in two matches but in New Zealand, his tally is impressive – two matches, 215 runs at 53.75.

Overseas record doesn’t hold much consequence on home patch, but this is a Test match in September and according to the curators, an active monsoon has forced them to prepare a pitch that might initially behave like an early summer English county surface.

For a while now, Dhawan’s inconsistency has been accepted by the Indian team because there weren’t many options. With a new challenger in Rahul, and an old competitor returning to the fray, Dhawan faces a must-score scenario. The pressure is on – will he wilt or bounce back?

In West Indies, at the start of the series, he had given a colourful quote about opening the innings – that it’s all about “jigar” (guts). He needs jigar and runs now.