Virat Kohli warms up to DRS, but conditions apply
India Test captain Virat Kohli dropped a hint that India could start using the technology sometime in the future. PTI India Test captain Virat Kohli dropped a hint that India could start using the technology sometime in the future. PTI

DRS IS an issue that inevitably pops up every time India are involved in a Test series either home or away. And while most Indian players are reticent to divulge too much on it, captain Virat Kohli chose to be candid about his personal views on the umpires’ review system. He also dropped a hint that India could start using the technology sometime in the future. “We definitely need to think about it. But I can’t make a decision sitting here right now. It’s a good point. We have had discussions on this. Certainly we will look to introduce it in the future,” Kohli said.

For long now, India have been the only country with a strong apathy to DRS and have declined the use of the review technology, which is otherwise part of every Test series not involving them. But on a number of occasions in recent memory, matches involving India have seen contentious decisions playing crucial roles in changing the momentum of the contest.

Kane Williamson got a reprieve in the first innings of the Kanpur Test, when a thin edge went unpicked. The New Zealand skipper went on to score 75. In the recently concluded Test tour to the West Indies, Rohit Sharma had been given out leg before off a thick inside-edge in the second innings of the third Test in St Lucia. India won the match so the ‘human error’ didn’t become an issue.

At Green Park also, Indian bowlers rallied brilliantly to secure a 197-run victory.

But there have been doubtful calls made by umpires that have turned entire Test matches around on occasions. At the Adelaide Oval, in Kohli’s Test captaincy debut, DRS would have saved Shikhar Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane. India eventually lost the match by 48 runs.

In Galle last year, Dinesh Chandimal made 162 not out in the second innings to forge one of the great comebacks in Sri Lanka’s Test history.

With DRS in place, he might not have gone past single-figures.

But Kohli wasn’t ready to use them as excuses for the losses, and felt that the Indians should just accept them as part of the deal.

“We won’t take (those) decisions too hard because we in the first place decided that we will not use the DRS. For us to say that umpires made an error and it’s going against us is not logical. There’s no room for excuses,” Kohli said.

His predecessor, MS Dhoni, though has been a longstanding critic of DRS and has come up with various explanations to defend his strong opinion.

“We need to push the umpires to make the right decisions. You have to see how many 50-50 decisions don’t go in our favour. It always happens, and you have to take it. But I’m still not convinced about the DRS,” he had said during a limited-overs tour to Australia earlier this year.

After a chronic rejection of the DRS, BCCI president Anurag Thakur spoke about the conditional use of technology last month. “You can have some and leave the Hawk-Eye,” he had said.

The cricket board’s aversion to the Hawk-Eye is down to the fact that it doesn’t guarantee 100 per cent success. And in the past other Indian cricketers have spoken about how DRS has often played a bigger role in defending the umpires’ decision more than eliminate errors.

Kohli offered a more rounded view. “There are some areas (that) can be discussed or debated on; especially ball-tracking and Hawk-Eye. Once it is in place, and up and running, then we can think of the grey areas,” he said, adding: “We have had meetings about it.”

But for now, it looks like the Indian team will have to be content with accepting the umpire’s call on the field regardless of whether they agree with it or not.