To get used to bounce, Virat Kohli uses a rubber ball
Indian test captain Virat Kohli got out for nine and 18 in his two innings at Green Park. (Source: PTI) Indian test captain Virat Kohli got out for nine and 18 in his two innings at Green Park. (Source: PTI)

IT’S NOT uncommon to see balls of different kinds being used during practice sessions. Over the years we’ve seen batsmen using tennis balls, tennis balls that have been intentionally made wet and taped balls. Adam Gilchrist once won a World Cup final with half a squash ball in his gloves. But on Wednesday, the Eden Gardens witnessed a different kind of ball— one that is more in vogue in gully cricket matches — make an apperance as batting coach Sanjay Bangar gave throwdowns to Virat Kohli using a rubber ball.

Wet tennis balls in particular are used generally by Indian batsmen ahead of a tour to Australia or South Africa as preparation to counter the extra bounce on the pitches there. But India are presently involved in a home series against New Zealand on spin-friendly pitches and against a team that doesn’t have a tearaway quick. So while Kohli’s use of the rubber ball did raise eyebrows, according to the Indian captain it was done keeping in mind the Eden pitch which is expected to be two-paced and also produce variable bounce.

“It was because we play three formats. We sometimes do tend (to go) on a flow. So it’s important to work on your skills that bring in stability to your game. It’s just about repeating those things. It’s about controlling the ball that’s bouncing and not coming at pace,” the skipper explained.

Kohli got out for nine and 18 in his two innings at Green Park. But he has raised the bar so high that even a minor blip is questioned. At the press conference today, he was asked about his form. But he didn’t seem too bothered about it.

“My own form, I don’t really think about these things. Generally cricket is a game of chances. But preparation is something which is in my hand and I look to do it 100 per cent at the practice,” he said.