Surgical strikes: In Gujarat, Coast Guard and BSF on high alert but border villagers will stay home
Security agencies in Gujarat, which shares a 508 km border with Pakistan, were put on high alert on Thursday. While the BSF intensified patrolling on the land border, the Coast Guard have been asked to maintain vigil in the sea, official sources said Thursday.

Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said, “Following the surgical strikes, high alert has been sounded across Gujarat, specially in the three districts — Banaskantha, Patan and Kutch — that share border with Pakistan. Coastal police stations have also been alerted to increase the vigil.”

“No evacuation (of villages along the Pakistan border) has been ordered as of now,” said defence spokesperson Wing Commander Abhishek Matiman.

Deputy CM Patel said the Home Ministry had instructed all border states to evacuate villages within 10 km of international border. However, we do not have any village within that range. All Gujarat villages are beyond 25 km range of the border,” Patel added. He said that the additional chief secretary (home) was in constant touch with various central security agencies to preempt any untoward incident.

Chief Minister Vijay Rupani hailed India’s surgical attack across the LoC as a “consolation” to the martyred soldiers. The CM held a meeting with top government officials to review security arrangements in the state, especially in three districts bordering Pakistan.

Rupani said the government had instructed the administration in all the three districts to provide all necessary assistance to the BSF, Coast Guard, Navy and Army, as and when required. The meeting was attended by state Home Minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja, in charge DGP P P Pandey, and senior IAS officers.

In Saurashtra, fishermen have been asked not to venture at the sea until further instructions while security forces and intelligence network have been alerted in Kutch along the border with Pakistan. Manish Lodhari, general secretary of Gujarat chapter of National Fishworkers Forum, said they too have asked fishermen to remain cautious.