Dabholkar murder case: Bombay HC directs CBI to obtain Scotland Yard report in six weeks
Narendra Dabholkar. Narendra Dabholkar.

The Bombay High Court Thursday told the CBI to obtain within six weeks forensic reports from the Scotland Yard in connection with the probe into murders of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, communist leader Govind Pansare and scholar M M Kalburgi.

The CBI has sent to the Scotland Yard samples of bullets and cartridges found at each of the three crime spots to find out if there was a connection between the three murders.

“We have given you time since May 2016 to obtain the forensic reports and we are not inclined to give you time after the next hearing,” said the division bench headed by Justice S C Dharmadhikhari. The court has adjourned the matter till November 23.

Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh informed the court that the CBI had obtained necessary clearances and assured that the process will be expedited.

The process to obtain the reports from the Scotland Yard was delayed since multiple sanctions had to be sought from various government agencies and local authorities in Pune, Kolhapur and Dharwad in Karnataka, said sources.

On Thursday, the court also directed the CBI to ensure that names of the witnesses are not leaked to the media and their identity is protected.

The CBI had approached the high court, seeking a stay on the trial in Pansare murder case at a sessions court in Kolhapur. The sessions court had refused to stay the framing of charges against accused Sameer Gaikwad, who is in judicial custody. The CBI had argued before the court that in case the three samples are found to be similar, the central agency was likely to handle all the three cases.

The families of the three victims have sought speedy investigation monitored by the High Court.

While the SIT probing Pansare’s murder has arrested Gaikwad, alleged to be a member of Sanathan Sanstha, the CBI has nabbed another Sanstha activist Virendra Tawade in connection with Dabholkar’s murder.