Maharashtra: Central Railway plans makeover of suburban services
Railways Minister Suresh Prabhu. (Express File Photo) Railways Minister Suresh Prabhu. (Express File Photo)

THE CENTRAL Railway (CR) is planning a Rs 20,000-crore makeover of suburban services including the addition of 150 new rakes, introduction of additional routes and space for trains, senior officials said Thursday.

“More rakes will halt overcrowding in the trains besides helping reduce accidental deaths on CR tracks, where at least ten people die in a day on average, given the demand and supply gap,” said a senior official. A committee was formed on the direction of Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu who was reportedly shocked after a video clip of an accidental death near Thane went viral.

Watch What Else is Making news



While accepting the challenges of punctuality and casualties on the tracks, Akhil Agrawal, general manager, said that the railways have taken various measures which have brought down the casualty rate. “The major challenges before the suburban railways is punctuality and deaths on the tracks. The CR has taken various steps such as increasing frequency of trains, introducing 12 coach rakes, building boundary walls and foot boards, which has resulted in a fall in deaths on the tracks,” he said.

Agrawal said more than 55 per cent of deaths on tracks occurred due to trespassing, 25 per cent due to commuters falling from the train and 25 per cent due to other reasons. The railways were planning to take more steps to improve the infrastructure and facilities of suburban railways, he said.

The trials of the first air-conditioned train rake in Mumbai will begin in October. The rake, which landed in Mumbai in April, is now ready to go for trials and is expected to be functioning in the next three months, he said. “There was a technical problem that has now been fixed. Trials of the rake will commence as soon as officials from the Research Standards and Designs Organization (RDSO) visit the city,” said Agrawal.