Could you give a loving home to Wrexham dog who had ears cruelly cut off?
An appeal has been made to help a Staffordshire bull terrier who cruelly had his ears cut off by his owner have a happy ending.

Tan male Victor was horribly maimed by Christopher Matthew Griffiths during a sickening act in September last year.

Griffiths, 34, of Bridge Street, Southsea, Wrexham, was convicted of animal welfare offences and sentenced to 24 weeks in prison at Wrexham Magistrates yesterday.

Now Victor, who is currently being looked after at an RSPCA centre, has made a great recovery and is looking for love and care at a new “forever home”.

Griffiths was found guilty of causing unnecessary suffering and carrying out a prohibited procedure to Victor, at Crescent Close, Crescent Road, Wrexham.

The RSPCA were contacted on September 22 2015 by the police after Victor was found with his ears chopped off.

Officers transported the dog immediately to an independent vet for emergency treatment.

Victor was subsequently given surgery and his ears were stitched up and by November his ears had healed.

His urine was also checked at the vets and it tested positive for cocaine.

The court found Griffiths had cut the dog’s ears off, using a pliers type implement.

RSPCA An RSPCA officer with Victor, who now needs a loving new home

Following the sentencing RSPCA inspector Kia Thomas said: “When I first saw Victor I was just so shocked as his ears were gaping open wounds. I had never seen anything quite like it before.

“It must have been so painful for him. It was just so heartbreaking. It is awful to imagine what poor Victor went through. It was totally unnecessary.”

Insp Thomas added: “Since Victor has been in our care he has been doing so well.

“He is an adorable dog with a lot of love to give.

“He loves nothing more than to be in your company and loves a cwtch on the sofa. He is now up for rehoming and we hope he will find his forever home soon.”

Griffiths was also disqualified from keeping dogs for 10 years and given a 12 month probation order.

If anybody is interested in rehoming Victor the number to call is 0300 123 0745.