J-K police sanctions Rs 2 crore for 3,500 officers injured in unrest
The Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday sanctioned an aid of Rs 2 crore for of 3,500 police personnel and special police officers (SPOs) injured in the ongoing unrest in the Valley.

Director general of police K Rajendra Kumar sanctioned the relief in favour of 3,500 police personnel and SPOs injured while facing hostile situation discharging their professional duties and in maintaining peace and order in the state, an official spokesperson said.

The DGP said over 4,000 state police and other security agencies personnel have been injured in different incidents of violence which include 1,369 from south Kashmir and 964 from north Kashmir.

“Welfare of personnel should be our priority to boost morale of the force. ‘Men in khaki’ perform in extreme hostile situations, causing physical injuries to various jawans and officers, while safeguarding the lives and properties of the people. Keeping in view this situation, the department is providing relief to such personnel,” Kumar said, addressing police officers here.

He said the organisation, realising its responsibility to help its personnel, has also introduced many schemes to provide succour to such personnel.

Read | Govt mulls ‘reconfiguring’ chilli-based shells to increase effectiveness

“The state police has suffered a lot, while ensuring rule of law and protecting life and property of people,” he said.

Kumar said cops who were critically injured in the clashes have also been provided financial assistance to meet out the expenses on their medical treatment.

“The injured cops have been treated in different hospitals, including Army Base Hospital and police hospital Srinagar,” Kumar said.

The police chief said many welfare schemes are in force to provide assistance to the police personnel and their families to infuse energy among them.

“The officers and jawans of the force are committed towards their spirit of public service and it is our responsibility to boost their morale,” he added.

Read | Why we must listen to Jayaprakash Narayan on Kashmir