Evacuation ordered along border in Punjab
987 villages being evacuated, says CM Badal

Tribune News Service

Chandigarh, September 29

Following instructions from the Centre, Punjab has ordered the evacuation of people from villages falling within 10 km of the border with Pakistan after India conducted surgical strikes across the LoC on Wednesday night. Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said nearly 987 border area villages are being evacuated. Earlier, on Thursday Badal put the entire government and political machinery in an emergency mode following reports of developments on the India-Pakistan border. (Follow The Tribune on Facebook ; and Twitter @thetribunechd ) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Badal on phone in the morning to request him to immediately start the process of evacuation of people residing in villages falling within 10 km of the international border in view of the escalating situation. After chairing a Cabinet meeting to review the situation in the wake of the Centre’s advisory, Badal congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government for taking the bold step.

In border districts one additional officer from Chandigarh has been sent to assist Deputy Commissioners, Badal said, adding that DCs have been sanctioned Rs 1 crore each to meet out any exigency arising out of the prevailing situation.

“I have personally called all MLAs in border districts and asked them to help in evacuation. While all schools in border areas have been closed, officers on leave have been recalled,” the CM said.

Depending on the situation people will have to remain out of the border area villages, he said. Chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal said among the affected villages 135 are in Taran Taran, 65 in Pathankot and 16 in Fazilka. Nearly 1,500 police and PAP jawans have been deployed as the second line of defence in the border areas. Earlier, during an emergency meeting convened at his official residence, Badal directed the Chief Secretary and DGP, who were present, to ask deputy commissioners (DCs) and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to oversee the entire evacuation process in the border districts of Ferozepur, Fazilka, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. The Chief Minister directed the DCs to identify suitable locations for setting up camps and ensure that none of the residents being evacuated were put to any inconvenience. Meanwhile, district administrations have been arranging buses for people to move away from villages along the border. Medical staff has been asked to remain on duty. Civil surgeons have been told to put things in place in emergency wards. Marriage palace owners have been asked to keep their palaces vacant. In case of need, people moving out of the border belt can be put there. All government employees who were on leave asked to report back in the border district. Revenue officials asked to make arrangements to set up relief camps.