Setback for sugar millers as Bombay High Court refuses to stay stock limit imposed by central government
THE BOMBAY High Court has refused to put a stay on the central government’s decision to impose a mandatory stock limit on sugar stock. Jaiprakash Dandegaonkar, vice president of the Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation said the High Court had, however, accepted the sugar millers petition challenging the stock limit.

Earlier this month, the central government imposed a limit on the amount of sugar stock that can be held by millers. In view of sugar prices crossing Rs 40 per kg in retail, the central government decreed that millers should not hold over 37 per cent of their total sugar stock by the end of September. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan had tweeted about this decision and the government resolution was issued later on. Stock limit has already been imposed on sugar traders and stockists.

Watch What Else is Making news



Dandegaonkar said around 55 mills had approached the High Court for a stay in the matter.

“These are the mills which have more sugar stock than the the approved limits imposed by the central government,” he said. He also said that the mills have slightly higher proportions, like instead of 37 per cent many of the mills have around 41-45 per cent of sugar stock. “Millers are ready to sell sugar, but there is hardly any demand from the market,” he said.

Earlier the Sugar Commissionerate had asked the Excise department to verify the sugar limit for individual mills. The food and civil supplies ministry had earlier asked for the stock positions of individual mills. A new survey will be done by the Excise department and the Sugar Commissionerate to get the September end stock positions. Action, if any, is to be taken by the district supplies officers later on.

With a lean sugar season in the offing, mills have been reluctant to sell sugar in anticipation of better prices. Millers have also talked about low demand from markets which has subdued sales.

Sugar Commissioner Dr Bipin Sharma said the mills should ensure they adhere to the sugar stock limits imposed by the central government at the earliest.