In Pakistan, a wall of denial: No strikes, only cross-border firing
THE PAKISTANI establishment and the country’s media were swift in denying the surgical strikes carried out by Indian Army early Thursday morning, calling the strikes “imaginary” and “fabricated”.

Just before India’s Director General of Military Operations (DGMO) addressed the media in New Delhi in the morning, Pakistan’s Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the official spokesperson of its military forces, tweeted that two Pakistani soldiers were killed in cross-border firing by Indian forces.

According to different media groups in Pakistan, the military and civilian leadership there claimed that the Indian establishment was exaggerating the incident of cross-border firing as a surgical strike to divert attention from the ongoing crisis in Kashmir.

Pakistan’s Defence Minister Khawaja Asif also denied that any surgical strikes were carried out by India.

The News reported, “Military spokesman Asim Bajwa confirmed that Indian army opened unprovoked firing in violation of ceasefire agreement at different sectors but rejected New Delhi’s claim that surgical strikes were carried out.”

The newspaper reported, “Defence Minister Khawaja Asif told media that Indian government is trying to calm down its people and media by resorting to such aggression towards Pakistan.” Quoting the Pakistani army, the report said, “The notion of surgical strike linked to alleged terrorists’ bases is an illusion being deliberately generated by India to create false effects.”

According to another report in The News, Bajwa told Geo News, “There is already escalation at the Line of Control (LoC) then why will someone try to infiltrate. We strongly deny such Indian claims.” Bajwa said India had violated the ceasefire and “fabricated this story”, according to the report.

Another newspaper, The Nation, reported that Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has “convened a meeting of the federal cabinet Friday that, apart from the regular agenda items, would discuss the situation in Indian-held Kashmir…. Foreign Secretary Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry will brief the cabinet on the situation in Indian-held Kashmir.”

“Pakistan’s civil and military leaders sent out a strong message on Wednesday amidst aggressive posturing from an increasingly hostile India, which has upped the ante following the Sept 18 attack on military base in Uri.” the Express Tribune reported.

The Pakistani leadership, according to Tribune, said in “unequivocal terms” that it won’t tolerate violence in Kashmir.