Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls 2017: BJP to host 200 events to woo OBCs
According to party leaders, in the upcoming meetings, the BJP will highlight that the party has appointed a backward caste leader. Uma Bharti (Above) and Knyan Singh have been chief ministers of the state. According to party leaders, in the upcoming meetings, the BJP will highlight that the party has appointed a backward caste leader. Uma Bharti (Above) and Knyan Singh have been chief ministers of the state.

Targeting OBC voters ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls, the BJP has decided to hold around 200 ‘Pichhda Varg Sammelan’ (backward castes conventions) across Assembly segments from October 15, as part of their efforts to unite the OBCs.

Before starting these conventions, the party is at present holding workshops at the regional unit level to train party leaders in organising such meets. The western UP unit’s workshop was held in Amroha on September 27, the Kanpur-Bundelkhand unit meeting was held in Fatehpur on September 28, the Kashi region’s workshop was held Thursday in Varanasi while the workshop for the Awadh region is scheduled for Friday (September 30) in Lucknow. Next month, the workshop for Braj will be held in Kasganj on October 4, while that of the Gorakhpur region will be in Kushi Nagar on October 5.

Watch What Else is Making News



These workshops are being addressed by party state general secretary Ashok Kataria and state secretary Amar Pal Maurya. Kataria is the state convener for the upcoming OBC meets while Maurya is the co-convener.

“These ‘Pichhda Varg Sammelans’ will be organised to consolidate backward castes and make them aware about the policies and vision of the BJP, which wants empowerment of all sections of society. We will tell OBCs that only BJP is their real well-wisher, and gives them representation in the government and organisation both,” said Amar Pal Maurya.

He further said that the meets will begin from October 15, and will continue till the election as all Assembly constituencies have to be covered. OBC voters will be invited to these meets which will be addressed by BJP OBC leaders, MPs and MLAs.

According to party leaders, in these meets, the BJP will highlight that the party has appointed a backward caste leader – Keshav Prasad Maurya – as party state president, while OBC leaders like Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti had served as chief ministers of UP and Madhya Pradesh respectively. Uma is also a minister in the Narendra Modi Cabinet at present, while Kalyan is the Governor of Rajasthan.

The BJP has already allied with Apna Dal and Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party in OBC-dominated eastern UP. BJP national president Amit Shah had addressed ‘Ati-pichhda Ati-Dalit mahapanchayat’ organised by Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party president Om Prakash Rajbhar in July. OBC leader and Apna Dal MP Anupriya Patel was inducted into the Modi government in the recent Cabinet expansion.

Former BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya too recently joined BJP, and had held a rally in Lucknow last week, where Shah had addressed the gathering as the chief guest. A BJP leader said that Swami Prasad Maurya will also address the OBC meets.

According to BJP leaders, the party has been focusing more on OBC voters as former Union minister Beni Prasad Verma is back with the Samajwadi Party (SP) while Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar too is holding conventions targeting OBC voters in UP.