Day before death, Bansal sent suicide note to media groups, CBI
Bureaucrat B K Bansal and his son Yogesh were cremated at Hisar in Haryana Wednesday. Praveen Khanna Bureaucrat B K Bansal and his son Yogesh were cremated at Hisar in Haryana Wednesday. Praveen Khanna

A day before bureaucrat B K Bansal and his son Yogesh Bansal committed suicide in their apartment at Madhu Vihar Tuesday, the former director general in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs sent copies of his suicide note to several media organisations, as well as the CBI.

The Indian Express received a copy of the note Thursday. Bansal was being investigated in connection with a graft case by the CBI and in his suicide note, Bansal had levelled serious allegations against senior officials of the probe agency.

A team of Delhi Police Thursday visited the office of the courier company, reportedly used by Bansal to send the notes, in Laxmi Nagar. Employees of the company told them that two persons had come to their office Monday and enquired about their services. “Later, they sent eight couriers to several media houses, and one to the CBI’s office. They came on their motorbikes… one of them was constantly talking on his cell phone,” added the sources.

Watch What Else Is Making News:

However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (east district) Rishi Pal said, “No case has been registered and inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of CrPC.” In his suicide note, Bansal had said his family — including wife Satyabala and daughter Neha, who committed suicide almost two months ago — were forced to do so because of “harassment and torture” by CBI officials.

He and his son, Yogesh, specifically mentioned a DIG-level official who, they claimed, had threatened the family, said sources. Yogesh, in his suicide note, held the official “responsible for the murder of his mother and sister”, said sources. A joint director-level official of the CBI has been asked to probe the allegations made by Bansal, and asked to submit a report as soon as possible, said sources.

DCW, NHRC seek explanation from CBI

A day after the content of B K Bansal’s suicide note was reported in the press, two commissions took suo motu action, issuing notices to the CBI. The investigation agency has to respond to a notice from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in 72 hours, and to another from the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) in 48 hours.