After surgical strikes, fear, panic in border villages in Punjab: Villagers leave home and house behind
Hours after news of the strike Thursday, families from Dauke village in Amritsar leave for safer areas. Source: Rana Simranjit Singh Hours after news of the strike Thursday, families from Dauke village in Amritsar leave for safer areas. Source: Rana Simranjit Singh

WHEN news of India’s surgical strikes and the Punjab government’s alert on evacuating villages within 10 km of the LoC started filtering in on Thursday afternoon, residents of Dauke started streaming out on two-wheelers, autorickshaws, cars and tractors. Some even started walking.

It didn’t matter that the Amritsar administration was yet to officially order any evacuation, or that alternate arrangements for their accommodation had not been set up.

“We have been told that this night is crucial and Pakistan can strike back. So it would not be safe to stay in the village, many have already left,” said Satnam Singh, husband of Amarjit Kaur, the sarpanch of Dauke, just 3 km away from the border.

His wife had already left, he said, adding that he had stayed back to guard their house from thieves.

This panic found echoes in other border villages of Punjab — in Tarn Taran, Pathankot and Gurdaspur.

“There are 80 villages under my constituency in Khemkaran within 10km of the border, eight of them virtually touch the fence. Here, the people are in panic. They are leaving their villages, with some going to the houses of their relatives or safer places. The administration has arranged for 10 camps in different parts of Tarn Taran district to accommodate them,” said Virsa Singh Valtoha, MLA.

The confusion was reflected in the administration’s response, too, with Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Varun Roojam saying that no alert had been issued for any evacuation. “We only made announcements asking people to be ready for any situation in which they may need to go to safer places. We have not asked them to evacuate now. The panic among people is all because of TV reports,” he said.

“The government has not arranged anything for us. Some families in our village own vehicles and they have left. What about poor people like us, who don’t even have cycles? Where should we go?” said Chanan Singh of Dauke.

Sito Kaur, meanwhile, had already started walking along with his family and a calf. “I have no other place to go other than the brick kiln where I work,” he said.

“People were calm during the initial hours but now they have started leaving the village,” said Mukhtiar Singh, a teacher from Rajatal village in Amritsar.

Like Satnam Singh, the sarpanch’s husband in Dauke, many were also worried about theft at their homes while they were away. “We had evacuated during the Kargil war and when we returned, there was nothing left in our homes,” said Hardeep Singh.

Others were left wondering about the road ahead. “I had gone to water my fields between the fence and the border. It was normal as always. But when I returned, the atmosphere had changed in such a way that I am no longer sure if the gates will be opened tomorrow,” said Nirmal Singh of Roranwala village from where homes of the nearest Pakistan village are visible.

Back in Dauke, a little girl was found crying at the bus stand. Her neighbours were leaving and she was waiting for her parents, both farm workers in Tarn Taran, to return.