Meanwhile, trucks roll across LoC with chilli seeds, dry fruits
Thirty-nine trucks crossed the LoC on Thursday. Express file photo Thirty-nine trucks crossed the LoC on Thursday. Express file photo

TWENTY-SIX trucks loaded with chilli seeds, jeera, dry fruits and embroidery items from Salamabad. Thirteen from Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) carrying mangoes, dry fruits and herbal items.

On Thursday afternoon, amid rising tension between India and Pakistan, 39 trucks made their way across the Line of Control (LoC) in Salamabad, crossing the Kaman Post Aman Setu bridge after 1 pm.

Business across the border had resumed on Tuesday after remaining shut for three months. “We have one more day of trade left on Friday,’’ said Farooq Ahmad Shah, custodian, cross-LoC trade in Salamabad, told The Indian Express. “After unloading, the Pakistani trucks will leave for Muzaffarabad while our 26 drivers will return via Kaman Post,’’ he said.

Cross-LoC trade was suspended soon after protests erupted in Kashmir following the killing of militant Burhan Wani by security forces on July 8. On Thursday, the crossing took place in the presence of army officials from India and Pakistan, with the trucks being escorted to Kaman Post after security and custom clearance.

Tanveer Ahmad, a trader from Baramulla, said that he had dispatched dry fruits to PoK. “There was no tension at the Salamabad Trade Centre. We have suffered huge losses due to the closure of trade and want it to continue,’’ said Ahmad.

Hilal Turki, general secretary, Cross-LoC Trade Union, said, “We had apprehensions due to the tension between India and Pakistan, but this is one of the biggest confidence-building measures between the two countries. We want this trade to continue and bring the neighbours closer.’’

On Friday, too, trade will be conducted at the Salamabad centre, he said.

Cross-LoC trade was started in 2008 as a confidence-building measure initiated by India and Pakistan after the start of Karvan-e-Aman, the bus service on the Srinagar-Muzaffarabad road. So far, 800 traders from both sides have registered for business, currently being conducted on a barter basis. Before the attack in Uri on September 18, many proposals were on the cards to enhance trade activities, including increasing the number of items.