Evacuation of villagers from Punjab-Pakistan Border is too early: Congress MLAs
THE PUNJAB Congress has opposing the Punjab government move to evacuate village residents from villages within 10 kilometres of the International Border, saying it t was “too early” to resort to any such measure.

Congress MLAs in border areas said as a mark of confidence building measure among the village residents, they would not cancel their party programmes scheduled in the coming days even as the administration had advised them to postpone the events.

Watch What Else is Making News

Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he was addressing a meeting in Gharien ke Bet across the Ravi river in Gurdaspur district tomorrow. “I have asked my people to stay put. Why should they flee yet?” said Randhawa.

There were others who saw a design of the government in ordering the evacuation “mindlessly”. Aruna Chaudhary, MLA from Dina Nagar said she was addressing a meeting in one of the villages but there was no panic. “They want to divert attention from real issues by asking for this evacuation. We do not agree with this,” she said.

Another Congress MLA from Ferozepore, Parminder Singh Pinki, said it was shocking that the government had asked lakhs of people to leave their houses without making any arrangements for them, “They should have set up relief camps at safe places, made arrangement for their children and healthy food. Buses should have been plied to ferry them to safer places. Is this a way to handle this situation?” he asked.

Anumit Singh Sodhi, son of Guru Harsahai MLA Rana Gumit Singh Sodhi, said he is organising a road show in the segment on Sunday, “I was advised by the administration to posptpone my program. But we will continue.”

Punjab Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh has cautioned against evacuating people from the border areas without any proper arrangements. “Please don’t try to create war refugees without, or at least, before the actual war”, he warned.

Amarinder said the evacuation would only create panic among people. “Such measures are not really required at this stage. Rather we did not evacuate people, up to 10 kms of international border, during the 1965 War,” he said.