Redrawing municipal wards: Election panel faces hundreds of suggestions, scattered colonies
Election Commission of India. (Express archive) Election Commission of India. (Express archive)

The State Election Commission, tasked with the responsibility of redrawing boundaries of municipal wards in the city, has received 650 representations from the public in the 20 days since the delimitation draft was submitted to the government. Public consultation on the draft was sought on September 9 after it was put up on the Delhi government’s website.

The representations, received from public as well as political parties, include suggestions ranging from changing ward names to adding or removing areas mentioned in the delimitation draft. State Election Commissioner Rakesh Mehta said that the commission is trying to maintain a “population balance” in each ward, with a 10-15 per cent margin of variation.

“There are several scattered colonies, so bringing them together under one ward limit is proving to be challenging,” said Mehta.

Watch What Else Is Making News:

Ahead of the elections to the three municipal corporations of Delhi next year, the State Election Commission is redefining the boundaries of municipal wards, based on average populations after the last census in 2011.

The wards in the three municipal corporations will be delimited on the basis of the average population of approximately 60,000 people per ward. Before the draft was opened for the public, the commission also held consultations with MPs, MLAs and councillors from the state.

The state election commissioner added that given the large population, as well as restrictions against changing the total number of wards, the commission is revising the number of wards per assembly constituency to a figure lower than ideally required. “For instance, in the Badarpur constituency, as per calculations, there should be 5.63 wards. So, instead of six, we are defining five wards,” said Mehta.

The total number of municipal wards is currently 272.

The commissioner noted that main roads are being used to define the boundaries of wards but in certain localities, a colony falls on both sides of a road, and residents and the welfare associations insist that they be clubbed together, as per old boundaries. “Such issues are being worked out. Over the next month, we will scrutinise the suggestions that have come,” said Mehta.

Another challenge before the commission is informing the many colonies and their residents about the change of wards once the draft is finalised.

Matiala is likely be the only assembly constituency with seven municipal wards, while, Mundka, Burari, Vikaspuri and Badarpur will have six wards each. Currently, each constituency has four wards.

The process of delimitation of wards is expected to be finalised by December 31 this year — with the government’s approval — and elections to the three municipal corporations are expected to be held by April next year. The BJP currently enjoys a majority in all three civic bodies.