Western Sector: Military units on heightened alert post surgical strikes in Pakistan
Air Force bases in Punjab and Haryana have already been on an increased level of alert due to an ongoing exercise of the Western Air Command. (Express Photo by Shuaib Masoodi) Air Force bases in Punjab and Haryana have already been on an increased level of alert due to an ongoing exercise of the Western Air Command. (Express Photo by Shuaib Masoodi)

ARMY AND air force establishments in the western sector have been put on a heightened state of alert following the strike at terror launch pads across the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir.

Highly placed sources told The Indian Express that leave of defence personnel had been canceled and the postings have been held in abeyance till further orders. Military units deployed in the region have been asked to remain in a state of preparedness, said a senior officer. Officially, there was no reaction from the Western Command Headquarters regarding deployment or on the Punjab government move of asking villagers within 10 km from the Indo-Pak border to evacuate.

Watch What Else is Making News



Sources in the Border Security Force (BSF) informed that BSF personnel had been asked to step up vigil along the border as personnel of the Pakistan Army have been observed to be deployed on the international border to augment the Pakistan Rangers stationed there. “The deployment of Pakistan Army has been steadily observed for the past few days and has not been sudden. But we are keeping a close watch over their movements. We have also instructed our battalions deployed along the International Border to be vigilant,” a senior officer said. Meanwhile, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Command, Lt Gen Surinder Singh, visited the forward areas in Amritsar and Gurdaspur sector and inspected the levels of operational preparedness of the units stationed along the border. He also visited the Jalandhar-based Headquarters of 11 Corps during his visit.

Lt Gen Surinder Singh interacted with field commanders in the border areas and emphasised on the need to ensure a high degree of readiness at all levels with special reference to the areas adjoining J&K like Pathankot and Gurdaspur. He further reiterated upon greater coordination and co-operation with BSF and all intelligence agencies in the area for a better synergy. The Army Commander was also briefed by the GOC Vajra Corps on the operational preparedness of the Army in the region. An appraisal of the situation along the border in Punjab and Jammu is also learnt to have been undertaken today by the western army commander.

Meanwhile, Air Force bases in Punjab and Haryana have already been on an increased level of alert due to an ongoing exercise of the Western Air Command. After the cross-LoC strike by the Indian Army, the alert is continuing and special emphasis is being laid on perimeter security of air bases in Punjab.