Japanese Encephalitis: In Malkangiri villages, pigs are the new threat
In Sindriguda village, Ganga Madkami, a Koya tribal, realised the mistake of keeping a pig close to his home. (Spurce: Express photo) In Sindriguda village, Ganga Madkami, a Koya tribal, realised the mistake of keeping a pig close to his home. (Spurce: Express photo)

IN Odisha’s tribal-dominated Malkangiri district, where 19 children have died of suspected Japanese Encephalitis (JE) since September 9, villagers are slowly waking up to a new threat near their homes — pigs.

Malkangiri Chief District Medical Officer Uday Shankar Mishra said the pigs act as excellent hosts for the encephalitis virus, which is then transmitted by mosquitoes to humans. “If we eliminate the pigs, we can control the epidemic,” he said.

Health worker Kanan Prabha Sahu, who visited a few villages affected by the epidemic, said she has been telling the families to keep their pigs away from human habitation, but they would not listen. “But this time, we may be successful as the death toll is rising,” she said.

In Sindriguda village, Ganga Madkami, a Koya tribal, realised the mistake of keeping a pig close to his home. Madkami’s two-year-old daughter Sweety Madkami died of suspected JE Wednesday. “I never knew that the pig would be responsible for the death of my child,” Ganga said.

In Dangashkhal, Keshab Kabasi was inconsolable after losing his four-year-old daughter Bhide three days ago. In 2012, he had lost his two-year-old son to suspected JE virus. Though Kabasi does not rear pigs, his neighbours keep pigs.

Tribal villagers said keeping pigs is part of their culture and no marriage is complete without it. “We may not give any gift, but in a marriage, we have to give a goat and a pig as dowry,” said Ganga Sodi, who has two pigs. While goat meat sells at Rs 400-450 a kg, pork is sold at Rs 300 a kg.

Malkangiri Collector K Sudarshan Chakravarthi said culling of the pigs was not possible. “The only solution is vaccination of the children, which would be done from next year,” he said.