Surgical strikes by India: Prakash Singh Badal lauds Army, says all evacuation measures in place
Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal. Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal.

CONGRATULATING PRIME Minister Narendra Modi and the army for “one of the rarest operations in the world”, Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said the Punjab government had made arrangements, following the directions of the Centre, to evacuate people in the villages along border located up to 10 kilometres area from the border.

Addressing mediapersons after an emergency Cabinet meeting which passed a resolution to hail the “surgical operation”, Badal said Rs 1 crore each had been given to Deputy Commissioners of six border districts – Fazilka, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot – to meet out any exigency arising out of the prevailing situation and to ensure that people who were being evacuated faced least inconvenience.

Watch What Else is Making news



Badal said the government ensuring that health services assistance, drinking water, toilets, food (langar), security of evacuated houses, fodder and generators etc are in place in the special relief camps for the evacuees.

CM said there were nearly 1,000 villages in six border districts where people are to be evacuated. Giving a break-up, Chief Secretary Sarvesh Kaushal said there were 300 such villages in Ferozepur district, 290 in Gurdaspur district, 137 in Amritsar, 135 in Tarn Taran, 65 in Pathankot and 60 in Fazilka. Kaushal said there were two types of evacuation – one where people were moving on their own to their relatives and other where people will come to relief camps in schools, community centres and marriage palaces.

Schools in the border districts in the state in an area of 10 kilometres from the border have been closed down until further notice. There are 267 schools on the stretch.

As many as 1,500 Punjab police personnel drawn from several districts and Punjab Armed Police were deployed in the border districts, said Punjab Director-General of Police Suresh Arora who was among the officers present when Badal briefed mediapersons.

Badal said the state administration had been fully geared up to face any unforeseen eventuality arising out of the prevailing circumstances and Additional Chief Secretary Home and Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) were camping in Amritsar and coordinating with civil officials.

“The Home Minister (Rajnath Singh) called me up earlier in the day and later I also called him up. When told to evacuate people, I asked him if it was that serious. He said it was. A meeting of the state disaster response team was held and course of action was decided. All arrangements are in place now. I congratulate Prime Minister for the appropriate step [of carrying out strikes in Pakistan]. I also congratulate military for the wonderful operation which is one of the rarest operations in world,” Badal said.

Badal who was unwell till recently, was advised rest and subsequently all his scheduled programs were cancelled, earlier in the day held a meeting with the state Chief Secretary and DGP.

Badal also spoke to the legislators concerned and told them to camp in respective areas along the border to liaison with the local officials to ensure safe movement of villagers.

The state government has deputed six senior IAS officers one each in border district to coordinate and oversee the evacuation operations. As per orders, R Venkatratnam has been deputed at Ferozepur, A Venuprasad at Fazilka, S R Ladhar at Pathankot, Vivek Pratap Singh at Gurdaspur,K S Pannu at Amritsar and H S Nanda at Tarn Taran.