Hindu Kranti Dal flexes muscle with cancellation of Atif Aslam concert in Gurgaon
The The Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Kranti Dal lays emphasis on patriotism, seeing it also as a way to curb terrorism, and cites this as the reason why it opposed the Atif Aslam concert. The The Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Kranti Dal lays emphasis on patriotism, seeing it also as a way to curb terrorism, and cites this as the reason why it opposed the Atif Aslam concert.

The Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Kranti Dal, a “non-political organisation” that aims to “combat evils in society”, on Wednesday, added the cancellation of Pakistani singer Atif Aslam’s concert to its list of “achievements”. The concert was to be held in Gurgaon’s Leisure Valley Park on October 15.

Hours after members of the Dal held a meeting with Gurgaon Deputy Commissioner TL Satyaprakash, the district administration sent out a message requesting the organisers of the event to “defer” the concert, “considering the sentiments of armed forces/ soldiers at the frontier”.

The organiser of the event, however, claimed the concert had been cancelled last week in view of the tense relations between India and Pakistan in the wake of the Uri attack.

The Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Kranti Dal, which says it has over 32,000 workers across 14 states, including Haryana, Odisha, Bihar, Uttarakhand, and Gujarat, prides itself on advocating the cause of the “Hindu nation” by taking up such issues. Established in 1999 by “seven people keen to work for the country” and promote the “Hindu cause”, the Dal focuses on 14 issues, including curbing atrocities on women, with measures such as helping “poor women” get married and eliminating the “curse of dowry”.

Among the issues the group has taken up is that of assisting Indian soldiers. The Dal recently started a website called ‘Blood For Nation’ to promote a campaign called “Khoon Ko Tilak Karo”. For the campaign, it invites people to register their details online if they are willing to give blood to soldiers, so that they can be contacted when needed.

“We opened registration two days ago and have already got 5,000 volunteers. As awareness about the campaign increases, we expect this number will rise and soon reach our target of 1 lakh,” Rajeev Mittal, national general secretary of the Dal and one of its founders, said Thursday.

One of the main causes of the Dal is “protection of the cow mother” through the establishment of the Gau Raksha Dal, which focuses on “preventing the murder of cows”. The Gau Raksha Dal’s Gurgaon wing, headed by Dharmendra Yadav, recently hit the headlines after a video of its members force-feeding panchgavya (cow dung concoction) to two cattle traders, who they had caught, came to light.

The Dal lays emphasis on patriotism, seeing it also as a way to curb terrorism, and cites this as the reason why it opposed the Atif Aslam concert. “We are not against art or artistes, but this country is waging war on our borders and killing our soldiers. If their (Pakistani) people work in the spirit of friendship, would we not respect their artistes and their soldiers? We have a problem with their questionable intentions and their wrong thinking,” said Mittal.

This concert, however, is not the first event in Gurgaon to be cancelled because of opposition by groups to involvement of Pakistani artistes. A performance by the Sabri brothers last year was called off after Shiv Sena members reportedly warned the organisers to replace the Pakistan-based group with Indian artistes. A replacement was done, but the organisers claimed this was done because of visa issues.